There's broad participation in the
market, but the magnitude of the upside
is just in a handful of names. It's been
a very nuanced move in terms of
inequity. There still is a tremendous
amount of demand for bonds. There's a
tremendous amount of demand for
treasuries. We're uncomfortable with
where multiples are, which is why we
think that you're likely to have a
pullback. The risks are known, and you
know, once the market kind of knows
risk, they can deal with it. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Wednesday, one big bill making
progress on Capitol Hill.
I felt the Senate was going to be
tougher than the House. It's a an
amazing pack. It's the biggest bill ever
passed if we get this done. I look
forward to the House taking up and
passing this historic legislation and
getting it to the president's desk. They
made it more conservative in some places
and moderated it a little bit in others.
This is no longer just a House bill.
It's not a Senate bill. It's the bill of
the people. A major tax bill might be
heading back into some Republican
resistance in the House. As President
Donald Trump looks committed to
deadlines on both taxes and trade, Fed
Chair Jal reiterates, "If it wasn't for
the tariffs, they would have cut rates
already." The tension builds in
Washington and it sounds like they're
all different issues that are coming to
a head at the same time, but it's
actually quite similar. It's all coming
down to who is going to pay for the
increased spending or some of the tax
cuts that are not fully funded. If is it
going to come from tariffs? Is it going
to come from Jay Powell cutting interest
rates to 1%? Is it going to come from
the growth of an economy that a lot of
people aren't projecting out? But
ultimately, that is the economic tension
that is really the thrust of all of
these issues. the bell uh the the the
tray issue as well as Federal Reserve
Chair Jay Powell. Super tight margins
down in Washington DC, not just in the
Senate, but also in the House. Is the
job of Speaker Johnson to hurt the cats
over the next 24 hours. It's going to be
incredibly challenging to try to get
this done by July 4th. already when you
see the outcry from a number of groups
and it's the same groups we've been
talking about these different factions
that are vying those that think the
Medicaid cuts go too far those that
think there's not enough spending cuts
and then one or two salt holdouts that
are a little bit concerned about the
edits in the Senate the group to watch
the Freedom Caucus Treasury Secretary
Scott Besson said last night he had a
meeting with them he sounded optimistic
when you look at some of these lines
Chip Roy I have very strong concerns I'm
not inclined to support this Ralph
Norman our bill has been completely
completely changed. This bill is a
non-starter.
Speaker Johnson can only lose three.
This is the battle going into the
weekend. A week today, there's going to
be a battle over trade. July 9th, the
president of the United States, I'm not
thinking about a pause. I'll be writing
letters to a lot of countries, including
Japan. Since Japan is evidently the
poster child that he'd like to hold up,
to beat up, to really show as an example
of anybody else. How did Japan become
the new China, the new Europe? It seems
like there always needs to be somebody
to be kind of on the whipping post. And
right now it's Japan. It's sort of the
example maybe to get others on board. I
wonder who he's messaging to. Is it the
European Union to get on board? Is it
India where negotiations are ongoing? It
seems like they just need to hold up
some example of badness to sort of get
people to comply. We know this president
likes to escalate to deescalate, take a
very maximalist approach. They could be
at the final ends of this negotiation
and he's just looking to maximize the
concessions out of Japan. maybe when it
comes to access to the auto market, when
it comes to maybe US rice going into
Japan, he says they're spoiled. And why
I think this is a negotiating tactic is
cuz he's not even thinking about going
back to the 24% initial rate he put on
Japan. He's talking about maybe they'll
pay 30 35%, we're going to see, but they
haven't been easy to deal with. Are you
gonna take some vacation next week? Just
take a break from all this. And maybe I
mean honestly this just feels a little
bit like kabuki theater. We deal with
this all the time. People come out, oh,
it's terrible. Oh my goodness, I'm not
going to vote for it. Oh my god, we're
not ever going to have trade again. And
then it gets resolved at the last minute
and everybody files into their resol
their respective places. And it we see
that story again and again and that's
where markets are. Brutal yesterday in
markets, wasn't it? Down a tenth of 1%
on the S&P 500. Snapping a 3-day rally
on the S&P. Looking ahead some data
later. Look out for ADP at 8:15 Eastern
time. The appetizer before the payrolls
report tomorrow morning. Payrolls
Thursday's just around the corner. The
estimate for this morning is 98K. That's
the estimate in our survey. The previous
number, a low ball, a big downside
surprise 37. That's coming up later.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Brian Nick of New Edge Wealth with
stocks sitting near record highs. If
Sitta Smolinsky of Capital Street as the
tax bill heads back to the house and way
of Black Rockck on the mega forces
driving global markets, we begin this
hour with stocks higher with President
Trump's tariff deadline just a week
away. Brian Nick of New Edge Wealth
writing, "We called our mid-year outlook
the summer of mud. The US economy is
getting weaker at an accelerating rate
and we expect downward revisions to GDP
growth to resume." Brian joins us now
for more. Brian, good morning. Thanks
for having me. If that's the case, can
you still be constructive equities and
why?
It's hard to be it's hard to be excited
about for us to be about any segment of
the market. Uh we're kind of preaching
balance. Most of our uh investors are
underweight international. They're still
overweight the US dollar. There's still
room to we think improve kind of
riskadjusted portfolio positioning. But
to look at small cap in this
environment, which has been a lagard,
you really can't get enthusiastic about
that if you're expecting downward GDP
revisions. To look at the large cap
that's run up so far so far so fast in
valuation and to look at long-term
returns, which is what our clients tend
to be interested in, and say what do you
really hope to get from an upside here
uh with 22 times earnings, 36 37 times
shiller PE, it doesn't look like an
appetizing time. And then you have to
look at the other side of the ledger,
the bond market. You you really have to
go into this with your eyes wide open
with the debt situation coming up and
the the potential that the Fed cutting
interest rates at the short end may not
do much to uh to cause bonds to rally.
Let's stay on equities first and throw a
sector in there. Bank stocks, KPW Bank
index close to all-time highs, big
buybacks. Wells Fargo, Mike Mayo coming
out and saying, "So long as we avoid
recession, it's game on for bank
stocks." Is just avoiding recession good
enough? Even in a decelerating growth
environment, is avoiding recession good
enough? I think if you get some steeping
in the yield curve, that's going to help
a lot of these stocks, too. If you get
some benign Fed rate cuts, now we don't
think that's all that likely. We think
what what the Fed's got priced in right
now is probably not right. It's either
going to be no rate cuts because
inflation just comes back in a way that
doesn't allow them to move, or it's
going to be more like the equivalent of
five or six rate cuts. But if you do get
sort of a benign steepening in the yield
curve, that can help bank stocks. That
probably also means we're not in
recession. probably means we're in more
like a 1 to one and a half% GDP world.
And we know from history that the stock
market can grind higher in that type of
environment even from here. But it's
going to be mostly the earnings. So it's
going to be, you know, fits and starts
inching your way back up. Not big
lurches like we saw in in May and June.
You know, one of the most interesting
things is how diametrically opposed
different notes are about whether we're
going to see upside surprises or
downside surprises to the US economy in
the next few months. Some people say
that the bill that is just being passed
in Washington DC will act as a
stimulant. I know that you have uh
disagreements with that Amory, but in
particular, you've got deregulation and
you have the expansion of the deficit on
the behest, frankly, of corporate
profits. Why is that not enough for you?
I think in it's going to help in the
near term because a lot of the things
that that are sort of cost savings in
the bill don't actually go into effect
for a few years. So, it's more
stimulative. If you look at the CBO, you
look at independent uh Wharton put out
analysis about this yesterday. It is
stimulative in the near term. The
question is stimulative into what kind
of environment? Retroactive sort of
business tax cuts, business tax
incentives are going to help earnings
this year is going to help earnings next
year. But if we're in a situation where
like we've seen consumer spending
negative for the first five months of
the year, housing prices declining,
people becoming less constructive about
the labor market, uh how much of an
oomph are we going to get? How much more
business is going to hire and invest
with tariff based on certainty uh still
and with a lot of concerns about the
economy independent of what passes in
this Congress? Meanwhile, you talk about
the yield curve steepening and what
could happen in the bond market. If I
were a cynic, I would say every time
people didn't understand the bond
market, they started to talk about bond
vigilantes coming back. There is an a
sort of theory of the mystery of the
bond vigilante who may or may not come
back to protest a bill where they don't
seem to be anywhere in sight right now.
So, how do you square that? What you're
seeing at two things happening at the
same time. One, the economic data is
getting steadily worse. And two, there's
this big budget busting bill that's
about to pass. there's even going to be
more deficit increasing than the one
that passed the House. And if you assume
a lot of these trap doors don't get
sprung where we don't actually see
things sunset in 2029. We don't actually
see some of these senators don't seem to
think the medic Medicare cuts or
Medicaid cuts are going to happen in
2027. If those things don't happen, this
bill is even larger. So if you're again,
if you're walking into the bond market
right now, you have to do it with open
eyes. You have to think short term, I'm
going to see enough of a weakening in
growth to get the 10-year down to 420,
maybe down to 4% or below. But that's
not going to happen absent a more
significant downturn. You're likely to
just be clipping your coupons here, if
that. Um, and I don't think you're going
to see a further rally in the bond
market unless the the economic data
weakens more. For the record, I do think
it's stimulative, but on the margins.
This isn't like 2017. The crux of this
is extending policy. What it does offer
though is clarity because it's clarity
that policy is not going to sunset at
the end of the year. Doesn't that get
you excited when everyone's talking
about all this uncertainty? the the most
expensive parts of the bill are just
maintaining the status quo, right? So
that's not going to be overly
stimulative. If somebody whose tax rate
was 19%, if that stays 19%, that does
not stimulate them to do more. And
frankly, most people probably don't
appreciate that by the end of the year,
if nothing gets done, the tax rates are
going to go back up. So I don't see it
as stimulative, but some of the new
business measures, making those
permanent, making expensing permanent,
that should help. Um, and for some
business passroughs, like individuals
that are tax-like businesses, this is
going to give them more incentive to
expand those businesses as well. But I
agree with you. This is not a huge
stimulus bill like the ones that we've
seen passed in the last couple years.
This is maintaining the status quo um
for for most of the tax code and doing
some spending increases in the very near
term and hoping for spending cuts down
the road. As we seek for clarity, would
you want to be maybe excited about July
9th? Then if the president is saying
everyone's getting a letter, I'm not
doing any extensions because at least
you'll have clarity and not all the
whipsaw headlines. Unlike the expiration
of the tax bill from 2017, there's no
statutory deadline here. This is just
arbitrary. And we've seen these
deadlines come and go in the past.
Sometimes with things like Tik Tok, but
also more recently with trade, 30-day
extensions on the Mexico Canada
agreements, we're like 90 days into that
30-day extension. So, I don't think
anything's magical is going to happen
necessarily on July 9th. There may be
some letters that go out, but the idea
that we're going to see all these tariff
rates go back up to where the
announcement was on April 2nd, I think
if people are expecting that, a it's not
incorporated in the markets. So markets
aren't thinking that's going to happen.
I think that's a reasonable assumption
at this point. Brian Nick of New Edge
Wealth. Brian, thank you, sir. Thank
you. Getting excited about clarity in
the second half to replace all the
uncertainty of the last several months.
Well, we need some excitement. I mean,
we've had a lot of excitement, don't get
me wrong, in the first right now, won't
you? Sure. Well, boring is great, but if
you can get excited about something that
has some stability or staying power, I
think that we all would be excited for
that. So, you know, predictability is a
good thing. Take a few summer months.
That's what we need right now. few
summer Wednesdays, you know, just really
quiet mornings when nothing happens. Is
this what the Fed is asking for? Is this
what Jay Powell is saying? We could have
maybe cut rates if I knew what the
tariff rates were if we had some
clarity. This should be mood music to
the ears of the president. We've been
asking guests over the last week or so,
what would you take? Extended pretend,
just keep this going on for the next
several years or just say 10% and move
on. And a lot of people have just turned
around and said, you know what, I'd take
10%, move on, just move on with the
whole thing. What do corporate
executives do when they think about how
to arrange their supply chains if
they're dealing with a policy that is so
ambiguous that's like holding water? And
the answer is it freezes them. And
frozen policy is policy and that I think
is causing a lot of anxiety. Will we
actually get a resolution a week today
or a repeat of April 2nd? It's a week
away. Equity futures right now in the
S&P slightly positive by a tenth of 1%
with an update on stories elsewhere with
your Bloomberg brief this morning.
Here's Yahara Anard. Hey yara. Good
morning, John. President Trump's tax and
spending bill is back in the House after
narrowing narrowly passing the Senate
with a tiebreaking vote from Vice
President JD Vance. It's running into
resistance from Republicans who don't
like some of the changes. Moderates are
worried about Medicaid cuts and
ultra-conservatives vow to oppose it
over its impact on the deficit.
Meanwhile, as you just said, we're just
one week away from President Trump's
self-imposed July 9th tariff deadline.
Beyond that date, countries that did not
strike deals with the US will see higher
tariff rates. The president says he's
not considering any delays, and he's
renewing his threat to cut off talks and
impose higher rates on several nations,
including Japan.
And Tesla is expected to report another
downbeat quarter with analysts
forecasting a 12% drop in sales from a
year ago. That would follow a 13%
decline in the first quarter. Meanwhile,
Tesla shares are off to a rough start
this quarter, which just started as Elon
Musk renewed his feud with President
Trump over the massive tax and spending
bill. That's your Bloomberg brief. John
Yhara, thank you. More from Yhara later
this hour. Up next on the program, we're
at the oneyard line. 85 to 90% of this
bill is the House generated product. The
Senate made some modifications to it.
We're at the oneyard line in this game
that we're going to run it right up the
middle and score for the American
people. That conversation up next with
Smalinsky of Capitol Street live from
New York City. You're watching Bloomberg
TV
[Music]
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Welcome to the program. If
you're just waking up, good morning to
you all. Equity futures positive by
about a tenth of 1%, bouncing back from
losses yesterday of about a tenth of 1%.
On the NASDAQ 100 this morning, positive
also and snapping back on a russle of
small caps up by 0.9%.
Under surveillance this morning, we're
at the 1yard line.
85 to 90% of this bill is the House
generated product. The Senate uh made
some modifications to it. They made it
more conservative in some places and
moderated it a little bit in others.
This is no longer just a House bill.
It's not a Senate bill. It's a bill of
the people, of the hardworking American
people, and we are going to deliver it,
as you said, Sean, by July 4th. We're at
the oneyard line in this game that we're
going to run it right up the middle and
score for the American people. Here's
the latest this morning. The big
beautiful bill hitting some resistance
in the House as lawmakers return to
Washington to vote on the Senate's
version of the legislation. Joining us
now from Washington is Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall. Now, Tyler, Speaker of the
House, Mike Johnson, making this sound
quite straightforward. I imagine this is
not going to be straightforward through
the next 24 hours.
Yeah. Hey John, good morning. This is by
no means a done deal, though we are only
expecting President Trump to ramp up the
pressure from here, which does hold a
lot of weight in Washington. We have to
keep in mind that this House bill was
designed not to pingpong between the two
chambers, which means that if House
members do want to make changes, they're
likely going to have to call what's
known as a conference committee on the
procedural level, which means the Senate
would have to get involved. That's sort
of the wonky way of saying that if they
do want changes, it's going to take time
and that could ultimately jeopardize
that July 4th timeline. Now, we're
running into the same issue in the House
that we just saw play out in the Senate,
which is that mainly Republicans are on
board with the tax cut policy in this
plan, but they're pretty divided over
the spending cuts. And House Speaker
Mike Johnson can really only afford to
lose three Republicans, and he already
lost two back in May. Uh Thomas Massie
of Kentucky and Warren Davidson of Ohio.
We're not expecting either of them to
budge on their no vote, which means he
can only afford to lose one more in
addition in order for this to pass. Now,
perhaps the most vocal group emerging at
the moment is the House Freedom Caucus
who are accusing the Senate of not
living up to its agreement for deeper
spending cuts by a tune of $500 billion.
But I would also keep our eyes on some
of those moderate Republicans and some
important battleground districts who
have raised concerns about the changes
to Medicaid. not necessarily tightening
the work requirements, but lowering the
Medicaid provider tax, which would
essentially mean less federal matching
funds for these states that expanded
coverage under the Affordable Care Act.
In fact, John, 16 of these Republicans
signed a letter last week saying that
they would not support the bill if it
lowered this provider tax. And at this
point, we're waiting to see if they're
willing to defy President Trump. Tyler
Kendall with the latest down in
Washington. More from Tyler in the next
hour. What are the odds that we're just
going to play ping pong between the
House and the Senate for a little while?
I mean, high at this moment, unless
they're able to get all everyone across
the line minus three, but likely this
can go to conference and at least a week
that they'll go through this process of
trying to get to one finish line where
they both could agree on. Let's build on
that conversation. If Smalinsky of
Capitol Street joins us now for more,
welcome to the program. I just want to
bring you the president's quote. We can
have all of this right now, but only if
the House GOP unites, ignores his
occasional grandstanders. You know who
you are. How many so-called
grandstanders are there? How difficult
is this going to be?
You know, look, and first of all, good
morning. Thank you for for having me. We
have gotten so far, you know, Tyler
summed it up really well. We had the
House bill pingpongked over to the
Senate bill. What happened in the Senate
is that a lot of those tax extensions
became permanent. So, guess what? The
bill got more expensive and so you had
to look for more spending cuts. Medicaid
is what took the hit. um and of course
has been extremely controversial just
after you know the last 24 48 hours
really it's been Medicaid and a few
other odds and ends for sure. So now
here we are um the House looks to
convene this morning right after a
marathon rules committee and I I think
if all went well we could see a bill
that's that's passed today. Um I don't
at all rule out what Ann Marie was
saying earlier about a conference
committee. You know, it might be a more
informal conference committee, not the
one that we have seen over the last 10
or 20 years where there's a actual
appointed members and so on and so
forth, but more of an informal
conference committee among leadership to
kind of iron out the iron out the
details and get it across the finish
line. When you say Medicaid has been
hit, what was the biggest blow to the
program?
Sure. So, I would point to three or
four. Um, I would say the Medicaid work
requirements saves about 300 billion
over 10 years. And that's this
requirement that folks in Medicaid, now
these are able-bodied adults. These are
not pregnant mothers or babies under
one. Of course, folks that who are going
to be required for 80 hours a month to
look for job, uh, volunteer work, even
schooling counts. It's a pretty light
work requirement. However, what we've
seen in states that have tried this
experiment is that employment doesn't
really get boosted and instead there's a
huge paperwork burden where folks can't
upload their forms and all of the
different verifications. It's almost
like filing your tax returns once a
month. Um, so people do lose coverage.
So, that's a biggie. The provider tax is
another issue where it's perfectly
legal. Medicaid is not a great payer.
But what will happen is states will levy
a tax on say a hospital or a psychiatric
facility. Maybe that's $100. Then they
turn to CMS in Baltimore and get that
matched rate of $100, maybe more. And
then that payment goes back to that
hospital through the managed care plan
or the MCO. Those are companies like
Centine, Molina, United Health, Etna.
Those are the plans that that play in
the Medicaid space. The the point being
is that that has been gamed to the point
where that percentage will get taken
down from 6% to about three and a half%
going down 50 basis points a year
starting in 2028. Some of these
provisions do start um in the outy
years. So there is certainly time to
modify them but that generates a couple
hundred billion over 10. The last I
would say big impact to Medicaid is the
state directed payment program where
states all kinds of states red states
blue states have um come to agreements
with the Medicare program CMS here in
Baltimore to have elevated rates.
They're not Medicaid. They could be
closer to Medicare or commercial rates
um in order to finance um their programs
essentially. And a lot of those are
nonexpansion states. So remember, nine
or 10 states have not expanded their
Medicaid program. Given that tax rate
doesn't start until 2028, will that
assuage some of these concerns of those
16 Republicans Tyler was just mentioning
that signed up to this letter saying
they're not going to support this if
they see that tax rate?
I think they could. Um, I think we could
hear a lot of discussion today, um,
maybe tomorrow about commissions and
ways to maybe do another reconciliation
bill or ways to kind of amend what's
being done here in order to lock in the
votes. I mean, I will say that House
Republicans do have um, a good track
record of sort of coming in line where
the president wants to be to get to get
things done and let's not um, let the
perfect be the enemy of the good.
Ipsita, how much are we seeing a
precedent getting set where essentially
the holdouts in the middle get bribed to
get on board? Essentially, they can get
handouts for their states and they'll
get on board at the expense potentially
of the deficit or at the expense of
certain programs that might not be great
for the rest of the country, but they
got their share.
Well, right. And nobody can ignore the
three or 3.3 trillion um in deficit. The
the CBO is coming out with new numbers.
I think even new ones as I was coming
here today to your studio. Um, you know,
huge losses in membership for Medicaid
for even exchange folks. These are the
Obamacare exchanges. Less noticed in the
bill, but some pretty big impacts there
as well. Um, Medicare was not touched in
the bill. I wanted to mention that
briefly. Um, the president said that he
would not touch the Medicare program.
Medicare Advantage plans. Um, again,
United, Etna, CVS, others are plans that
operate in that market. that there are
some some perceived I would say upcoding
and waste fraud and abuse that could
have been addressed. Again, that was not
um in this bill. PBMs also those are the
middleman. Um they are very vilified I
would say here in DC on a bipartisan
basis. Well, there were some reforms.
They might have been um more milktoast
reforms, but those also fell out of the
bill due to the parliamentarian process
just recently over the last few days.
I'm pleased you've read the bill. At
least there's someone out there that
has. Thanks for being with us. Of Cedus
Smolinsky there of Capitol Street. What
was it? 940 pages. Something insane. I
mean, honestly, how many people are
actually getting through the whole
thing? But in some of those pages, they
are specifically put in there for
specific Congress members to get on
board and that is exactly how this
process went down. Bond investors have
been ignoring it as well over the last
few weeks. Yields are higher this
morning by four or five basis points at
the very long end of the curve. We'll
keep tracking that story. Also want to
track the latest with the labor market
with payrolls tomorrow. The ADP report
later. We need to talk about AI. In the
journal yesterday, if you missed this
story, let me read some of it to you.
Bank of New York Melon said it now
employs dozens of artificial
intelligence powered digital employees
that have company loginins and work
alongside its human staff. Yeah, this
has been a huge issue particularly for
entrylevel workers because you've seen
for example college grad uh the hiring
rate just fall off a cliff. How much are
we going to see the workforce
transformed in a way where everyone
doesn't get a job, but the
transformation is stark and leaves a
number of people out? Up next on the
program, Cisco Chief Product Officer G2
Patel on how AI is reshaping the labor
market. Then later with Danny Burgerer.
We'll go through your morning movers.
Sentine plunging after withdrawing
guidance.
Equities
[Music]
positive right now by a tenth of 1%
after snapping a 3-day winning streak on
the S&P in yesterday's session with some
very mild marginal losses. On the
NASDAQ, we snapped a longer winning
streak than that on the NASDAQ 100. We
were looking at gains for six
consecutive days until yesterday. This
morning, just about unchanged. Plenty of
movers out there, including one big one
with three hours until the opening bout
with your morning movers. Here's Danny
Ber. Hey, Danny. Yeah, John, a huge one
from Sentine to the point where if you
didn't know this company, you'd assume
it is something of a penny stock down
27%. But this is a $30 billion market
cap health insurer. They withdrew their
guidance for this year. At issue for
them, they said they did channel checks
with 22 different states and it does
appear that the compensation that they'd
usually get for taking on sicker
patients is less than they expected.
That could mean a revenue hit of
something like $1.8 billion. And if this
sticks, this price would be their lowest
since 2017. We're also seeing other
health insurers decline in the
pre-market session this morning.
Elsewhere, a nice little pop from
Spotify this morning, up just about 1%
or exactly 1%. About an hour ago, the
Journal publishing a story according to
sources. Netflix looking at expanding
some of their live events like concerts,
different music competitions, and it's
considering or at least held talks with
Spotify for those type of events.
Finally rounding things up with some
sellside action this morning. Crocs
getting an initiation from Goldman Sachs
setting it at a price target street low
of $88. They say that yes, they have
good advertising, interesting different
products from Crocs, but competition is
stepping up and demand is normalizing. I
have no idea what competition for Crocs
is. I don't know what other shoe looks
like then, but regardless, shares down
one and a half%. John, I think
collectively we've had a S rating on
that trend for quite a while. Oh, Danny,
thank you.
I think they can be useful. I mean, are
you a Crocs kind of person? I don't know
if I'm a Crocs kind of person, but if
you're going to a pool and you have kids
and they for children. Oh, is that
right? That's it. What about snowers?
Have you heard about snowers? What are
snowers? That's a sneaker loafer. That's
the new trend. Snow. That's taking over
Crocs. Oh, Prada has them. No, they do.
They're gross, right? It's a loafer with
like a sneaker soul or something like
that. Yeah, snowers. But I'm still
against the dudes that wear sneakers
with suits. Yeah, you know the guys. I
know. I know you are with the black shoe
with the white soul. You see them
walking around the Senate. I'm not
trying to croc. That is never happening.
On our radar this morning, President
Trump's tax bill heading back to the
House after narrowly passing in the
Senate. Lawmakers set to vote later
today with a number of Republicans
remaining opposed to the bill and
Speaker Johnson only able to lose three
votes. He can only lose three votes and
then when the bill passed in the House
earlier in May, only passed with a one
vote margin. So, he's really dealing
with really tight margins here. And the
group he needs to look out for is the
Freedom Caucus. They have been very
vocal and they do not like the bill that
has been edited in the Senate and
they're basically saying for us, this is
a non-starter. So, there's going to be a
lot of backroom dealings. You hit on
this point earlier. What does each
individual want to get? A lot of pork is
going to have to go around to get
individuals to sign up and say yes on
this bill. Well, Lisa Marowski of Alaska
is the perfect example. She voted for
this bill. She was the swing vote and
what they had to do to get her on board
was enormous for the people of Alaska.
If you're in Alaska, you can thank Lisa
Marowski. For the rest of the country, I
don't know, even she is coming out and
saying good things are important, but it
also is important in terms of how they
are paid for. And I struggled mightily
with the impact on the most vulnerable
in this country when you look at the
Medicaid and the SNAP provisions.
Basically, she doesn't like what it does
to the rest of the country, but Alaska
got its due. So, okay. When the
president says ignore the occasional
grandstanders, everything you've just
said, isn't that fuel for the
grandstanders to come out and say, you
know what, I'll have some of that. Yes.
Exactly. And when you look at the Senate
version of the bill, she took it to
extreme lens because she really was the
last hold out and they really needed her
votes. But if you look at everyone got
something. Ted Cruz got more money when
it comes to the border. Everyone got a
piece of pork as Steve Dennis would say.
But what's so interesting about Lisa
Marowsky is she said, "Do I like this
bill?" No. She wants the House to vote
it down so it goes into conference so
they can work on it. If you don't like
it and you want it to go to conference,
then why'd you vote yes? We're dancing
around two self-imposed deadlines. One
is for taxes. That's July 4th. The
others for trade a week today. The
president saying he has no plans to push
back the tariff deadline set to take
effect just a week away. The White House
signaling trade deals will soon be
announced with only two countries
signing agreements so far. Yeah, and
it's the UK and China of all places,
even though that was supposed to be the
hardest. Meanwhile, you've got Japan
that's potentially on the chopping
block. You've been chopped from the
potential actual negotiation. We're just
going to send you a letter. India has
been uh extending their discussion with
the United States. There are these hairy
discussions at the same time that
President Trump is coming out and
saying, "I'm not going to extend the
deadline. Forget it." So, it raises the
question, I don't want to say taco
because that's not the case. It's more
how much is this really ultimately
somebody who wants to negotiate and
ratches up the pressure as much as he
can to get as much as he can. Anchors to
the extreme a week away. I'm not going
to let it slide and we'll see what
happens. A week today wanted to squeeze
the banks in. We've seen a massive
rally. Wall Street's biggest banks
announcing fresh plans for stock
buybacks and dividends after passing the
Federal Reserve's annual stress test.
The Fed finding all 22 banks examined
would hold enough capital to withstand
an economic downturn. These names are up
again in the pre-market. I can tell you
the KBW bank index is higher for nine
consecutive sessions. And yesterday
after that this uh stress test result
came out, you saw every single one of
these banks announced a dividend
increase plus share buybacks authorized
by JP Morgan. It raises a question for
July 15th when JP Morgan kicks off bank
earnings. How much do they increase risk
as a result of deregulation? How much do
they increase their expected payouts?
How much do they try to seem like growth
stocks again after so many years being
tethered by regulation? Should we talk
about how we're all being replaced? I
think should we start that conversation?
My mom do it. Chat GPT. Lisa, chat GPT.
What do you think? I think it's great.
Let's do that right now. Turn into AI.
That was nice. I imagine it'll be a
little bit more realistic than that.
Cisco's president and chief product
officer GT Patel saying, "We're on the
verge of a second major inflection in
the development, writing, AI agents will
produce original insights and help us
solve problems that we might never have
dreamed of solving before." In this
sense, I think Aentic AI is the single
most important technology leap of our
lifetime so far. G2 joins us now for
more from Cisco and he's quickly
becoming our like AI therapist. GT,
welcome back to the program, sir. That
last line is pretty strong. G2 bigger
than the internet, bigger than that,
that big
you know each one of these techn
Firstly, Jonathan, thank you for having
me. I am sorry I couldn't be there in
person. and I'm in these beautiful
London Bloomberg offices. So, um uh let
let me just say if you take a step back,
we are in the second major phase of AI
where we used to be the past 2 and a
half years what we've experienced is
chat bots intelligently answering
questions for us. We're now squarely in
the second phase where agents will be
able to conduct tasks and jobs almost
fully autonomously uh on behalf of
humans. And it's going to completely
unlock potential that we haven't seen
before. And um I'm pretty excited about
the potential of what this is going to
be able to do to solve problems that we
have not been able to tackle as of yet.
That's probably the most underhyped part
of AI in my my opinion. Well, let's get
into that. That phrase unlock potential.
I'm thinking about unlocking potential
for who? People who own the stocks,
people who run the companies or people
who actually work at the companies and
run the operations. The difference
between say job replacement and job
enhancement. G2, what's the difference
between the two?
you know, so the way I think about it is
there's a definitive pattern in history
of the way that technologies get um to
get adopted. The first the first phase
is when people are fearful of the
technology and then they flourish with
them. And we are currently in this mode
of largely being skeptical of AI
thinking it's going to take our jobs.
And like I said to you the last time I
saw you, Jonathan, uh I worry less about
AI taking my job. If I worry about
someone using AI better than me, that's
probably going to take my job. And we
should make sure that we democratize the
use of AI for every person so that we
can actually unleash our potential. And
that in my mind is uh is an area that we
don't talk enough about right now, which
is what are the unsolved problems that
we have not been able to solve because
of original insights of AI that we'll be
able to solve today. um the think about
the kind of new businesses that people
will be able to start, the kind of um
you know diseases we'll be able to solve
for. Now I'm not delusional. It's it's
not that this comes without any risk.
Security and safety is a huge risk. We
ought to make sure that we actually get
all over that and um band together as um
as a community to make sure that we can
solve those risks. But but the I'm a net
optimist of AI rather than u thinking
that it's going to take every job that's
avail that's that's available for humans
right now. G2 that's a pretty extreme
prediction. There is this question of
who potentially benefits within the
labor market and who is left behind and
I wonder at Cisco you talk to a lot of
companies. How are they preparing their
workforces and are they aware of how
much retraining is necessary to keep
their humans relevant?
Yeah, I think there's, you know, the uh
most organizations right now are
thinking about how is uh each job going
to get reconfigured and what are we
going to need to do to make sure that
the augmentation of AI to a human makes
the human more productive. What we want
to do ultimately is make sure that AI
can reach its full potential, the humans
can reach their full potential with AI.
So for example at Cisco um we are uh
hoping that there's going to be a lot of
code that gets written autonomously.
That doesn't mean that we're going to
have less engineers. That means that the
engineers will have will provide more
insight, more oversight and they'll
actually think about new ideas uh
because we are currently so constrained
with engineering talent that we're not
able to prosecute all the ideas that we
have and now we'll be able to actually
get more throughput capacity as a result
of having AI being a companion for every
engineer. And so I feel like every
single job will need to get reconfigured
slightly, will need to have um be
adjusted. But this is no different from
any other previous technological
revolution that we've had with the
internet. You had to have the same with
the with the personal computer. There
was the same kind of reconfiguration of
jobs. And yes, some of those will um
those jobs will go away. There'll need
to be some retraining. But frankly,
there'll be new jobs that emerge that we
haven't seen up until now that allow us
to actually move even faster. One of the
issues and one of the differences now
versus the internet or the
industrialization or even the engine
when it came out is the speed of how
quickly this is getting implemented of
how quickly the development is going and
we're getting to phase two before some
people even understand the potential of
phase one. And by the time we get to
phase three, there going to be a whole
host of people that don't even realize
how behind they are. just how big is
that mismatch in terms of the speed of
the evolution and how behind a lot of
the workforce is to meet it?
This is actually a really important
point, Lisa, because the speed of uh the
pace of change is something that we've
never seen before. And frankly, that's
why sitting on the sidelines and waiting
for this thing to kind of play out
before you jump in is exactly the wrong
strategy. What we need to do is make
sure that everyone's actually getting
dextrous with the use of AI because
there's only two kinds of companies in
my mind. Those that are going to be
extremely dextrous with the use of AI
and others that'll actually really
struggle for relevance. And we want to
make sure that there's more and more
companies that are in the first
category, not the second. And so I do
feel like speed's an important dimension
and in order to tackle that, every
company just needs to make sure that
they're actually thinking about getting
in not sitting on the sidelines but
immersing themselves and experimenting
with AI as quickly as possible so that
they can get an instinct. They can get
some kind of judgment of what this is
going to look like over time. G2, you're
not just working with companies, you're
also working with governments. front
page of the Wall Street Journal today is
talking about how China's AI companies
are basically challenging US
superiority. Who is doing it well? Who
do you think is winning this race?
Well, I think right now u you know while
US is in the lead, China is actually
catching up fast and so we need to make
sure that we continue um the pace of
innovation that's there. And what you
what you want to see is that the US
companies are becoming some of the
standards for infrastructure buildout
that might be all around the world for
safety and security all around the
world. You want to make sure that that
happens and that's why it's so important
that you know the companies that win and
the countries that win with the AI race
are the ones that are also going to win
economically. They're also going to win
from a national security standpoint. So
there is a lot of benefit to making sure
that you're kind of immersing yourselves
in an AI. I was recently in um the
Middle East um Lisa and um we um uh we
announced some partnerships with the
Saudi um you know government uh and with
with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia as well
as with the United Arab Emirates uh
where we're going to help with data
center buildouts. And if you think about
what the constraints of AI are, there
are three things. There's power, there's
compute, and there's networking
capacity. Those are the constraints. And
we need to make sure that this
infrastructure gets modernized and that
we have American companies that are
helping in u participating in these
massive data center buildouts which
actually provide the infrastructure
necessary for everyone to be able to
have access to AI. G2 just before you go
we're focused on payrolls this week.
Lisa's been doing a great job over the
last week or so just bringing up
highlighting continuously repeatedly how
difficult it is for graduates to get a
role at the moment. And I just wonder
how this is going to impact hiring at
the entry level over the next several
years or so. As companies figure this
out, they'll invest a lot in software,
invest in the current staff to learn how
to use some of these things, but I'm not
sure they're going to hire at the same
pace. G2 and I wonder what your
experience is now both within Cisco and
looking at speaking to other companies.
You know, John, you and I talked about
this last time as well. I actually tend
to learn so much from the people that
are AI natives that are just coming out
of them um out of the educational system
because they think they use AI very
differently than folks that have been
around for a while. And so I actually
don't think it's a good strategy to not
hire entry-level candidates and just
think that AI is going to replace those
jobs. Frankly, I feel that you have an
entry- level candidate with AI as a
companion, you can start to see
meaningful levels of compounding of
value. Uh and so I I do feel like
there's two um you know categories of
people that are actually doing really
well with AI. The the early entrance
who've actually been AI native that know
and have a very different instinct for
how to use AI and then and then the
second ones are the highly experienced
um group of people that are using it.
Well, what we need to do is we need to
make sure that we train the um the
people in the middle so that they're all
not fearful of AI, but they're in fact
starting to think about this as an
accelerant to their personal
productivity as well as the productivity
of the companies. You're slowly
converting me G2. It's wonderful to
catch up. Enjoy London, sir. I'm so
glad, John. We'll see you in New York
soon. G2 Vital of Cisco. Thank you, sir.
He's wonderful when he breaks all this
stuff down. I think a lot of people
still fearful. Yeah. if you're not an AI
native. I think about AI natives versus
uh someone like myself who's kind of
right off the boat trying to figure it
all out. But I do wonder, you know, what
this really does to the dynamic of a
labor market and how you factor that
into some of the payrolls figures that
we're seeing. I mean, what's a good job
at a time where the job description is
changing so dramatically. So true. We'll
look at those job numbers a little bit
later this morning and again tomorrow
with an update on stories elsewhere with
your Bloomberg brief. Back with us,
here's Yahihara. Hey, Yahara. Hi, John.
President Trump says Israel has agreed
to conditions for a 60-day ceasefire in
Gaza. In a post on Truth Social, Trump
said mediators will now deliver the
proposal to Hamas and warned them the
deal will not get better, only worse.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu is set to visit the White
House on Monday. Meanwhile, Columbia
University was the victim of a hack. A
Bloomberg investigation revealed that 2
and a half million students and
applicants information were stolen. We
reviewed data provided by a person who
claimed to have hacked the school back
in June. It included university issued
ID numbers, citizenship status, and
application decisions. The data stolen
dates back decades.
And season 3 of Squid Game shattered
records, drawing over 60 million views
in just 3 days. The final season of the
Korean dystopian thriller also hit
number one on Netflix in 93 countries.
Netflix says 80% of its members have
watched Korean content since Squid Game
debuted in 2021. That is not me. That
That's your Bloomberg brief, John. It's
not me either. Yahara, thank you.
Appreciate it. More from Yahara in about
30 minutes. Up next on the program, one
week and counting.
Mr. President, are you thinking of
extending the pause on terrorists in No,
no, I'm not. I'm not thinking about the
pause. Uh, I'll be writing letters to a
lot of countries and I think you're just
starting to understand the process. Up
next on the program, Wayi of Black
Rockck
[Music]
live from New York City. Welcome back to
the program. Under Savylvanas this
morning, one week and counting.
Mr. President, are you thinking of
extending the pause on terrorism?
No. No. I'm not I'm not thinking about
the pause. Uh I'll be writing letters to
a lot of countries and I think you're
just starting to understand the process.
We've dealt with Japan. I'm not sure if
we're going to make it here. I doubt it.
They and others are so spoiled from
having ripped us off for 30, 40 years
that it's really hard for them to make
it here. Here's the latest this morning.
President Trump threatening Japan with
tariffs up to 35% while doubling down on
his self-imposed July 9th deadline for
trade talks. Way of Black Rockck writes
in a world of weak macro anchors, mega
forces like artificial intelligence are
the new long-term anchor for achieving
durable returns. Way joins us now for
more. Wake. Good morning. Good morning.
Is it getting harder to find a long-term
macro anchor in this environment? Well,
long long-term macro anchors have been
lost. You look at inflation anchors, you
look at long-term growth anchors, you
look at long-term fiscal anchors, you
look at even anchors in institution
confidence, right? Like the safe haven
status of the dollar, but maybe also
independence of the Fed. So it's really
hard to find long-term macro anchor
which is why uh we actually think that
it's um easier to think about tactical
uh as allocation because of immutable
laws around US debt and global supply
chain. Paradoxically, there is greater
certainty in our assessment in the near
term than in the long term, which is the
opposite of what has been always the
case, which is why we're moving risk
targets in terms of the budget
deployment from longer term strategic
association.
This is one of the best tactical
investment environments. So, what's the
tactical approach currently for you and
the team? Right now we are investing for
the here and now which is to recognize
that so far this year we have focused a
lot on tariffs and we're still focusing
on tariffs which is very different from
Trump term one where we had tax cuts
first and then we had tariffs but now
focus is going to shift also towards tax
cuts also towards deregulation
potentially unleashing animal uh spirit
and yes tariffs headlines are still
flying around but we do think that
because of the constraints and immutable
laws that I just talked about we're
going to get to uh uh some sort of
landing spot not uh likely derailing the
tactical kind of uh riskcom view that we
still have. So right now we still like
uh US equities and I would observe that
at this juncture is no longer consensus.
I speak to investors across the world
Europe APEC I would think that it's more
divisive right now but we still like it.
the condition for sustained rest of the
world Europe outperformance over US
haven't been met which is why we're not
we haven't chased the European uh equity
uh outperformance uh beyond closing the
underweight to neutral earlier in the
year so you keep mentioning the
immutable economic laws and I think this
is a really important point and in the
outlook that black rockck put out you
did write we think immutable economic
laws will prevent a return to a maximal
stance how much does this just mean fade
the extremes fade the tail risks because
they always will come back to the center
based on math. That that's exactly
right. If we uh faded extremes, which we
did, think about kind of how we uprised
immediately after April the 9th, then we
would have captured and we and we have
the 20% more than 20% ready from the
April uh trove. So it's really
recognizing that even though headlines
can be very scary sometimes for markets
there are things governing how quickly
things can change from status quo in the
very near term. So if we want to close
trade deficit then we lose a lot of the
reliance on foreign funding and given
that the US has the highest financing
needs among G7 in terms of percentage of
GDP and one of the shortest average debt
maturity that is something that cannot
really be messed around with which is
why we believe especially at times of a
huge amount of uncertainty in market
narratives this strategy is rewarding
and in fact has worked really well this
year. Just quickly, how fragile does
that make this market that has become
numb to extremes?
Um, I think markets are not yet numb to
extremes in that you still see headlines
like whip sawing uh day-to-day market uh
uh volatility. We see equity sensitivity
to incoming data at a much more elevated
level compared to pre uh uh pandemic. We
see rate sensitivity to incoming data.
Like we're talking about month-to-month
inflation print, but the long-term
10-year sensitivity to month-to-month
inflation prints is so much more
elevated now, which means that markets
are trying to extrapolate from incoming
data. what it means for the long term
which speaks to the loss of long-term
macro anchor which is why if we have a
very clear kind of assessment of the
fundamental picture that allow us to
play the uh current environment
tactically uh and reversal strategies in
the middle of wildly swinging uh market
narratives has been very rewarding for
our active platform super thoughtful
stuff way appreciate your time as always
thanks for being with us here in New
York why there of black rockck we do get
more data a little bit later the ADP
employment report in about an hour and
20 minutes. The estimate in our survey
so far, 98,000.
Last time around, a big downside
surprise, 37K. We'll see what we get a
little bit later this morning. Up next,
we'll catch up with Sarah Hunt of Alpine
Sax and Words later in the hour. The
former speaker of the house Kevin
McCarthy, Matt Lazetti of Deutsche Bank,
and Joe Leavonneia the councelor to the
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson. From
New York City, this is Bloomberg.
[Music]
It's a very interesting dynamic for the
US economy right now. The labor market
has loosened a lot. The labor market's
still holding up. The whole narrative of
the economy having avoided a recession
is is a reasonably positive backdrop.
You've seen economic surprises turn much
lower. People have been cutting their
GDP growth estimates. Liberation today
is really what drove those US growth
expectations lower and part of that also
fed into people selling dollar assets.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning to you all. The second hour
of Bloomberg Surveillance starts right
now and your scores look like this.
Equity futures on the S&P positive by a
tenth of 1% snapping back, bouncing back
from some mild losses in yesterday's
session. on the NASDAQ 100 down not even
a tenth of 1% negative0.05%.
Things could get more interesting as the
day progresses when we get some economic
data. 8:15 Eastern time the ADP
employment report later in the week of
course about 25 hours away. The jobs
report in the United States that's just
around the corner. then through the
weekend looking to see if the president
gets his bill. And this really is going
to be key because the more certainty we
get about the bill, what that looks
like, what the deficit will be, and then
the tariffs and what that deal will be
when we get that in about a week, then
we can get a sense of what the economic
ramifications could be as we extrapolate
out and try to understand the new normal
that we're in that everyone has become
benome to. And that is what people are
hoping for. Will they get it? I think
still remains a question. Jim Karen and
Morgan Stanley joining us later in the
program in the next hour. Jim making the
point that he thinks in the second half
of this year you'll see clarity
replacing uncertainty. And I think
looking down to DC, that's a hope we all
share. That's a hope that also you see
projected right now when it comes to
what's going on in the House. There is
from the leadership of the House trying
to project this clarity that they can
get the vote today. They're going to
reconvene at 9:00. Potentially we could
see a vote as soon as today. Yesterday
it was eight individuals we were worried
about. It's about the same, maybe even
12, a handful. But everyone has
different issues. There's individuals
that say they're upset about salt,
individuals that don't like the Medicaid
cuts, and then the biggest headache for
Speaker Johnson has to be the House
Freedom Caucus. These individuals are
coming out like Ralph Norman and saying
that bill in the Senate is a non-starter
for us to vote for in the House. They're
focused on the details. I have to say
from the investors that have been on
this program, they're not focused on the
details at all. They just want to make
sure that we see an extension of current
policy and that's secured the tax cuts
from the first term of President Donald
Trump and that we just move on. We just
move on from there. Do something on
trade. Move on again. Text back in a
leadership position. That's something
people are comfortable with and stocks
are close to alltime highs. When you say
people, when you say investors, I think
we're talking stock investors. I think
bond investors don't know what to make
of this. They don't know whether the
bond vigilantes have actually
disappeared, whether they ever existed
or whether there actually is a real
question around the deficit. And I do go
to the committee for a responsible
federal budget that came out with a
projection that this would increase the
deficit by more than $4 trillion uh for
the next 10 years. And it raises a
question of will there be some
acknowledgement of this in the bond
market. Are we already seeing an
acknowledgement of this where yields
would be substantially lower on the long
end should there not be this concern
hanging over about the deficit? Wall
Street Journal editorial board this
morning calls it the meh tax bill that
has to pass. met me and their last line
is in the bill is more than anything the
triumph of GOP political necessity and
the end of tax uncertainty is its main
virtue. This extension of policy
there'll be tax hikes at the end of the
year if they don't do anything. We can
explore the counterfactual. If we
weren't extending current policy, we're
talking about something much much worse.
We'd be talking about tax hikes for a
lot of people. And I think we'd have to
confront the idea that we'd be talking
about an economic downturn. And you'd
have low bond yields for a very
different reason. And I would say that
would be a bad reason also. Well, the
Fed would be cutting anyway just putting
all of this aside because inflation is
naturally coming down. Now you've got
tariffs potentially juicing inflation
and you have a deficit increasing and
you have an economy that's chugging
along. So it leaves the Fed in a very
difficult position and that is the
reason why they are in wait and see mode
even though they're getting handwritten
notes over uh different pamphlets from
the president saying please what are you
doing? We'll talk about those
handwritten notes a little bit later
this hour. The pressure building on Fed
chair JP Pal. More data later. If you're
interested where the bond market is
right now, just a snapshot for you. Bond
yields are actually higher this morning
by five basis points at the very long
end of the curve. So on 30s, your yield
at the moment 481. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with Sarah Hunt of Alpine
Sax and Woods with stocks pausing near
all-time highs. Former Speaker of the
House Kevin McCarthy as the tax bill
makes progress in Washington. And we'll
catch up with the counselor to the
Treasury Secretary Joe Leavone. Joe's
going to join us a little bit later this
hour. We begin this hour with stocks
higher. Investors awaiting June payrolls
and more clarity on trade policy. Sarah
Hunt of Alpine Saxon Woods writing, "The
momentum seems to be favorable as long
as the economy holds up and earnings
continue to come in with positive
trends. Risks are still out there."
Sarah joins us now for more. Sarah, good
morning. Good morning. Question we've
lent on a lot over the past few weeks is
whether the worst of the data is still
in front of us and if it is, are
investors going to be willing to look
through it. Now we get some policy
clarity. I think if you do get some
policy clarity, it's absolutely going to
help. I think that the the the worst of
the data ahead of us feels a little bit
like long and variable lags that we were
worried about a year or so ago with
higher rates that that we're going to
make all these problems. And to the
extent that people, including myself,
were looking for some of that, it didn't
really come through. So, I think this is
the reason the market is where it is, I
think, besides good earnings is that
people are sort of having the
realization, well, what if those bad
things don't happen? because if they
don't, we've got some relatively decent
runway if we get some of these problems
solved because I agree with you on this
bill. If you don't get it, then the tax
raises take all bets off the table and
the market is absolutely expecting it to
be to be a done deal. The stock market
is certainly seeing a half glass full
and some both in technology stocks and
in bug stocks and I wonder of those two
rallies in those two sectors, is there a
sector that you think is a little bit
more vulnerable as we work our way
through the rest of the summer? Well, I
think that the banking sector got some
relief on some of their some of the
issues that were really plaguing that.
So, I think that the banking sector is
in pretty good shape. Technology has
been much more run by headlines where
the slowdown in some of the data center
spending or some of the data center
booking that people were worried about
at the beginning of the year had a big
effect on that group. I think now we're
back to actually it's going to be fine
and there's some bigger use cases and
that's making a big difference and I
think that that's something that
everybody was looking for last year. as
that starts to come through. I agree
with Way Lee, it's a good place to be.
Just uh to build on that, last year
people were looking at the shift from
some of the uh big hyperscalers to the
adopters. That was the story last year.
It didn't come fully to fruition. It was
sort of concentrated in the Magnificent
Seven stocks in terms of the rally. Are
you actually starting to see that
widening out that would justify equal
weight that would justify not just
hiding out in the two sectors that John
Ma named which is the bank area as well
as the tech sector? Well, it's
interesting to see the leadership come
back to the tech sector, right? And I
think that that bounce back was so
severe this year so far that it's left a
lot of people in the dust because the
rest of the market has done okay, but
not as well now that you've seen that
return to performance. So, I think that
there is room, but you need to figure
out why. And that's got to be on
earnings and margins. And that's part of
the AI story that we can help earnings
and margins. So all of that sort of
comes together, but people are still
more likely to be chasing the front
runners in that than the than the people
who will eventually benefit, at least at
the moment. How much is the stock market
constrained by a bond market that
doesn't know what to do? Because that's
kind of what it feels like, particularly
on the long end. It doesn't really feel
like the stock market's all that
constrained at all right now, does it? I
mean, we just hit another new high after
big concerns and after that huge plunge
in in April. So, I think that it's
almost like we're we're acting in
different ways again. Some some of those
original relationships between bonds and
stocks that people look for. Some of
those correlations are out the window.
And a lot of the correlations that we're
used to seeing are not feeding the way
that they necessarily textbook should.
And I don't know that that's really
making that much of a difference, but
you get huge moves in yields in a quick
period of time like we saw earlier. And
yes, that can start to affect equity
markets as well. The reason why I ask
this is because there was a belief a
couple months ago that bond vigilantes
would come out and would protest a bill
like the one that we're seeing that
would increase the deficit this much.
Right now you're seeing a marginal
selloff, but otherwise you're not seeing
a lot of action. There's a real question
about whether there will be a reaction
and if there is not, whether this is
potentially another risk that's been
taken off the table. How do you
understand the concept of the deficit as
it plays into the bond market? Well,
what's interesting is I was listening to
to Bloomberg yesterday and somebody made
the point that a lot of the bonds are I
think it was Bob Michelle bought a lot
of the a lot of the bonds are in hands
that are strong hands and not in dealer
hands that are in hands where people
want to hold those to maturity. So the
trading around them isn't as fast and as
much as it used to be. The holders are
now in places where that's they're going
to stay there. So that makes a little
bit less volatility sometimes, not all
the time because you certainly saw a lot
of bond volatility. But the idea that
there's a lot of money looking for a
home and people put it in bonds and at
yields where they are right now, they
feel pretty comfortable with that on the
longer term. So that trading fastness
isn't quite as bad as it used to be. If
you want to express your concern with
the policy in Washington, then where do
you do it? Is it just dumping the
dollar?
I think that's been part of it, but I
think it's hard to express that concern
in a in a specific way because there's
so many moving parts outside of the US.
So what's going on in Europe? there were
reasons to say, "Okay, let's get excited
about Europe." Whether or not those
reasons come to fruition is always the
question with Europe, right? We're going
to make all these spending changes. Are
they going to actually be able to do it?
I don't know what the answer to that is,
but there was at least a fundamental
reason to say, "Okay, I can get
interested in this market now." And so,
therefore, I can move some of my money
and I can change some of my hedging,
which is also part of what's going on in
the foreign in the foreign exchange
markets. So, I think that there are ways
to do that, but it's hard to pull apart
each causality all on its own. And I'm
not sure exactly how you would best
express that and getting out of the
market hasn't been the best way to do
that either. When it comes to the
question marks in Washington DC, these
two self-imposed deadlines, we do know
that at some point the bill is going to
pass whether or not it's Friday or not,
and then July 9th. But after July 9th,
how concerned should the market be about
the sectoral tariffs that a lot of
people say have stronger legal footing?
I think this is one of the big questions
that when I and when we started to talk
about earnings are the driver of
markets, right? So earnings are going to
be affected by all of that and one of
the things that people got a lot of
comfort with was good Q1 earnings and
also the moving of those deadlines and
whether or not those things were
actually going to happen as they start
to come through. If they start to have a
big knock-on effect on earnings, it's
going to matter a lot more. Right now,
there's still the belief that we're
still in the negotiation phase and that
even though we're going to have a
deadline in another week, there's going
to be more room to move around that as
we've seen so far. Whether or not that
comes true, this is exactly what
happened in April. Everyone thought it's
a negotiating tactic, then they thought,
"Oh my goodness, this is serious." And
now it's not a negotiating tactic. So, I
don't think we know what the answer to
that is, but we certainly have a history
to show that maybe there's more room in
that play than we had the first time.
I'd take it an additional step as well,
just to build on what you were saying. I
think the market has also decided that
the tariffs that are on and any
additional tariffs won't actually lead
to the kind of inflation bump that
people were worried about. We've taken
comfort from the disinflationary trend
of the last several months, which is why
this market is betting on rate cuts even
as the chairman is still going around
saying they're not going anywhere
anytime soon. And part of the reason why
is because of Fed officials like Mary
Dailyaly who came on surveillance and
said that she seems to be leaning toward
this idea that you're going to get a
one-time price increase, but after that
there isn't going to be this
long-standing inflation that remains in
the system. That seems to be what people
are coalescing around. Sarah Hun of
Vampire Sax and Woods. Sarah, thank you.
It's good to see you as always. Let's
get you a quick update of news elsewhere
with your Bloomberg brief. Back with us,
here's Yahira. Hey yra. Hi, John.
President Trump's tax and spending bill
is back in the House after barely
passing the Senate with a tiebreaking
vote from Vice President JD Vance. Now,
it's running into resistance from
Republicans who don't like some of the
changes made in the Senate. Moderates
are worried about Medicaid cuts and
fiscal hawks are vowing to oppose it
over its impact on the deficit.
Meanwhile, we're just one week away from
President Trump's self-imposed July 9th
tariff deadline. That's the cut off
point for countries to strike deals with
the US or see higher tariff rates. The
president says he's not considering any
delays and he's renewing his threat to
cut off talks and impose higher rates on
several nations including Japan.
And Iran is said to be cutting off
communication with key UN nuclear
officials. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that Iranian regulators have
stopped taking calls from the IAEA after
formally ending inspections last week.
Thrron had previously allowed an average
of more than one IAEA inspection a day,
but the Israeli and US assaults has
changed the equation. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John Yahara. Thank you.
More from Yahara in about 30 minutes
time. Up next on the program, facing
opposition in the House. 85 to 90% of
this bill is the House generated
product. The Senate made some
modifications to it. We're at the one
yard line in this game that we're going
to run it right up the middle and score
for the American people. Unique up
inside just around the corner from
former speaker of the house Kevin
McCarthy live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Quiet morning for the S&P 500 so far.
Positive by about a tenth of 1%. Bit
busier in the bond market. Yields higher
at the very long end of the curve.
Things can change later. 1 hour from
now. We'll get some ADP jobs data under
Savannah this morning. Looking down to
DC facing opposition in the House.
85 to 90% of this bill is the House
generated product. The Senate uh made
some modifications to it. They made it
more conservative in some places and
moderated it a little bit in others.
This is no longer just a House bill.
It's not a Senate bill. It's the bill of
the people, of the hardworking American
people, and we are going to deliver it
by July 4th. We're at the one yard line
in this game that we're going to run it
right up the middle and score for the
American people. Here's the latest this
morning. President Trump's tax and
spending bill hitting a little bit of
resistance in the House as Republican
lawmakers return to vote for the
Senate's version of the legislation.
Joining us now is Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall. Tyler, let's talk about that
self-imposed July 4th deadline. How are
things shaping up? Yeah, hey John. Well,
it's by no means a done deal, though.
President Trump is ramping up the
pressure on House Speaker Mike Johnson
to thread the needle here because he can
only afford to lose three Republican
votes. And we already know of two likely
nos since they voted against the package
back in May. That's Congressman Thomas
Massie of Kentucky who's actually facing
a Trumpbacked primary because of his no
vote. And then also Warren Davidson of
Ohio who has raised concerns about
deficit spending. And it is perhaps this
group of lawmakers who are pitching
themselves as fiscal hawks. many of them
members of the House Freedom Caucus who
ultimately say that they're not going to
be able to support this bill unless they
see some sort of further commitment when
it comes to this since they think that
the Senate fell short by about $500
billion dollar in promised spending
cuts. Though, we should point out that
their counterparts in the Senate like
Ron Johnson and Rick Scott ended up
voting in favor of this bill. So they
might not have allies in the upper
chamber to make any sort of significant
changes because at the end of the day
there's pretty broad agreement about the
core pillars of this package when it
comes to the tax cuts. But it really is
the spending cuts that we're seeing
prove the most contentious. And that's
why I'd say we should also keep our eyes
on some of these moderate Republicans in
some critical battleground districts who
have raised concerns about changes to
Medicaid. not necessarily tightening the
work requirements, but that the bill
would actually lower the Medicaid
provider tax, which could mean less
federal matching funds for uh these
states that expanded coverage under the
Affordable Care Act. And John, we
actually heard from 16 of those
Republicans who signed a letter last
week saying that they would not support
this bill if it did lower Medicaid
provider taxes. But we should say that
in the final compromise that the Senate
had, it did boost something known as the
Rural Hospital Fund in a bid to try to
get some of these lawmakers over the
finish line. We're going to have to see
if it's enough and whether any of them
are willing to defy President Trump.
Tyler Kendall with the latest. Tyler,
thank you. Hoping to avoid some ping
pong between the House and the Senate.
Joining us now, a man with experience of
all of this, the former Speaker of the
House, Kevin McCarthy. Speaker McCarthy,
welcome back to the program, sir. It's
good to get your thoughts. I want to
lead with a question that Amarie asked a
little bit earlier on the program. When
you're hurting cats on Capitol Hill, is
it easier or harder when the president
of the United States is Donald Trump?
Oh, it's so much easier. President Trump
is stronger today than he was at any
time in his political career. President
Trump is stronger in the House.
Remember, just to get this bill out of
the House, they all said they weren't
going to vote for it. President Trump
came down to a conference, told both
sides from Salt, it's over. From the
Freedom Caucus, that's over. Everyone
who said they wasn't going to vote for
it voted for it in 24 hours. So, this
bill is going to get passed. The only
thing that's holding up when this bill
gets passed is the weather in DC and the
attendance of how that people get here.
Well, yeah. People now have to come back
to Washington when they thought they
were going to have this week off.
Speaker McCarthy, so you think the
Freedom Caucus will fold again? Will
they fold by July 4th?
Uh, I believe so. I mean, think about
this. uh Mike Lee, Rick Scott, Ron John
all voted for this bill in the Senate
and they're not going to vote for it. So
if they don't want to vote for and they
vote no, they're sitting with the
Democrats and want to increase taxes,
they have no place to be. What they want
to do is get the attention they always
crave. So they talk about that now. But
how many times can you cry wolf and say
you're not going to vote for something
and in 24 hours vote for it? Uh they
have done this numerous times. They want
the president's attention. They say this
so they can go down to the Oval Office
and see the president and go back home
and say they saw the president. So, do
you think the rule vote, which comes
first, will pass because we can't see
the bill on the floor until that goes
through?
I believe yes, it'll pass. It's all
going to come down to attendance today.
How many people could make it to DC? A
lot of flights will were cancelled. So,
do they have to delay it a day or not?
But this bill will pass. Remember, it
already passed the House. It has now
passed the Senate. and and you got the
July 4th deadline holding right behind
you. There's a lot of pressure mounting
here. President Trump has done a
tremendous job on this, but he has
become the speaker in the same time
frame. Every time he's leaned into a
bill, it's been able to pass. He's the
closer. He's the speaker and chief. How
concerned are basically just congressmen
and women about being torched on Truth
Social like Thomas Massie?
Well, you look at Tom Tillis. I mean,
uh, Tom Tillis, who had a lot inside
this bill, was pushing people to put
more inside the bill, turns around and
decides not to run for reelection. I
think that plays on the mind of a lot of
individuals. Um, and people are now
being able to look at the bill. At
first, they're always arguing about
what's wrong, what's they're not really
looking at what's positive that you're
not raising taxes, you're actually
getting the economy moving again. You're
keeping your promises. for those who are
sitting in salt districts. And you had a
list up there of people who are leaning
no. Nick Leotaa, he said he's for this
bill. That's a big movement for because
he actually improved salt for his
district when it was 10,000 is now
40,000. He can go back home and champion
what he was able to achieve while he was
in Congress. That's a victory. At the
same time though, there really won't be
a cap. The cap expires at the end of the
year. So don't you think the salt caucus
does have some leverage? No. No. goes
after goes after 5 years. No, from the
same standpoint, it wouldn't go totally
go away. Are people going to let these
taxes all go away? He had been able to
achieve something while keeping taxes
low. If he wanted salt to go away, he'd
raise taxes on all of his individuals
and play that way. That's not why people
elect him. They elect him there to go
legislate. And that's exactly what he
did. He improved the lives of his
constituents and he can champion that
and actually be celebrated back home.
Each of the constituents were trying to
improve the life of their region. From
an overarching federal perspective,
which this is a federal law, do you
think that this is a good bill?
Yes, this is a very good bill because
what would happen if you did not pass
this bill, your taxes would go up. Um,
the economy would spur a little down. I
mean, this is exactly keeping the
promise. And if you want to put it in
perspective, this bill is exactly what
President Trump campaigned on. So the
American people voted for that. He won
the popular vote. Something a Republican
president has not done in more than 30
years. He says no tax on tips. It's
keeping his promise. And this is the
first thing people look at. And even if
you didn't vote for him, you respect
that. You kept your promise. That's a
change. You said you'd secure the
border. You secured the border. You said
you would move it and make sure the tax
were done. Yes. Whatever respect you
want to give me, I'll take. I'll give
you loads of respect. There's a real
question right now about the deficit
increasing and the fact that there is a
perception and it was edified by the
Congressional Budget Office saying that
essentially this would take money out of
the pockets of the lowest income
individuals in the United States and it
would add to the higher inome
individuals significantly uh in the form
of tax cuts and other potential
benefits. That isn't necessarily one of
the agenda items that was promised on
the campaign trail. Correct.
Well, all due respect to you, if you
look back at the tax bill that we're
keeping in place, what happened after it
was placed? People actually got more
income. Companies gave thousand checks
to their employees. So, the CBO can
score it one way, but we know what
reality is. We know what we're seeing
right now as well, where the S&P 500 set
a new record. So, I think that lives
much stronger to the American public
than anything else. When they keep their
promise, the economy is stronger, the
border is secure. You're watching the
Middle East go to a place we haven't
seen in a long time, trying to end war
in Ukraine. Yes, the world is a much
better place because we elected
President Trump, and yes, he is keeping
his promise, and this aligns exactly
with that, and America will be stronger
for it. Speaker McCarthy, I'd love to
talk to you about your relationship with
both uh President Trump and your friend
Elon Musk. Are you being called in to
try to mediate this feud we see?
I have not been called in and I just
know when two bulls fight the only
people who lose is the ground underneath
it and I don't want to be that turf. Um,
one thing I do know is when those two
work together, there's nothing we can't
achieve. So, in the same mindset, I
think people need to take a deep breath.
Let's get back to where we were before.
Let's put America first and find the way
that we make everybody stronger. Speaker
McCarthy, with respect and thanks. Thank
you, sir. Appreciate your time as
always. Thank you. Thank you, buddy.
Thank you very much. the former speaker
of the house Kevin McCarthy there. I'm
still in that line. Aren't you? I think
that's great. I'll take all the respect
I can get. I think he loved your first
question because let's be honest. Well,
it's your question. Let's be clear.
Okay. But the point of the matter is it
is easier to be the speaker of the house
when the president is President Trump
and not when he was speaker of the house
when it was Biden because Trump
basically does so much of the heavy
lifting whether it's truth social,
having people over at the oval. he gets
these congressmen and women to the
finish line without the speaker having
to really do too much. That though is
what I think was interesting about the
last week or so. Your point is perfectly
valid, but the extra wrinkle comes from
Elon Musk because Musk is the money man.
And seeing division between those two
individuals over this bill is a choice
between pleasing the president and
upsetting where the money comes from.
And the reason why this is particularly
salient is because of being primar. That
is the real threat coming from President
Trump. I'm going to put a candidate in
there to run against you. Well, if
you've got Moneybags McGee over here
fueling your campaign, it changes the
equation. This competition will continue
down on Capitol Hill. The only thing
stopping this bill from passing
apparently is the weather in Washington.
Up next, Matt Lazettia Deutsche Bank
with markets counting down to June
payrolls. Plus, Danny Burgerer with your
morning movers looking at shares of
Tesla ahead of the company's second
quarter deliveries.
Here's
[Music]
a snapshot of the markets this morning.
Good morning to you. Equity futures
positive by a tenth of 1% on the S&P.
Just a small bounce back from a small
bounce of losses just yesterday. In the
NASDAQ, we're looking at gains of just
0.02%.
Much more interesting in the bond
market. 2-year, 10 year, 30 years,
steeper curve this morning, led by some
losses at the long end of the curve.
Yields higher by five basis points,
48141.
And over the past week, got to put the
spotlight on what's happened in foreign
exchange. Euro dollar 9 days of euro
strength, the longest streak. Lisa said
it yesterday since 2004 for the single
currency. Some euro weakness this
morning. Euro dollar back down to 11763
after going through 118. Just got to
flag some push back building from the
ECB. The vice president saying 118's
okay. 120 is all right. anything beyond
that we might have a problem. Another
official talked about this weighing on
inflation and another official Mario
Santino earlier on this morning the risk
of inflation undershooting is greater
than the risk of inflation overshooting.
The euro zone in a very different place
to the United States at the same time
not signaling rate cuts. So it really
raises this tension of exactly how
they'll respond as Christine Lagard has
her eye on creating some sort of reserve
currency in the euro and wants to really
bolster it even if it gets a little
complicated over 120. Euro dollar
negative by a third of 1% so far this
morning. That's a single currency pair
for you. Let's get you some single names
in the equity market with more. Here's
Danny Ber. Hey Danny. Hey John. Just
moments ago Tesla was gaining more than
1% but those gains starting to e but had
a really painful day yesterday. But this
morning we got the figures from
Shanghai. their deliveries there ticked
up for the first time for the first
month of the entirety of the year. Of
course, Tesla has been under immense
pressure, especially in China, given the
competition, given the politics. The
issue is, and perhaps why we're seeing
some of the gains Wayne is that the tick
up was only8%
year-over-year. Even so, there was some
hope that maybe this represented
something of a turning point or at least
things not being as bad. Now to the
downside massively this morning. It
continues to be sentine one of the
biggest losers down just under 29%. This
is a health insurer. They've scrapped
their guidance for this year because the
money that they get paid to take on more
sick patients looks like it's going to
be less in many states this year. They
could see a hit apparently as big as
$1.8 billion. So with that scrapping,
we're seeing shares trading at a 2017
low. Finally rounding things out this
morning with Adobe getting a cut uh in
guidance uh from Redburn rather
Rothschild's Redburn downgrading how
they see the stock saying that there is
just a lot of competition and it's
eating at the moat that Adobe has and
their ability to keep up prices. We also
saw Figma for example file for an IPO
yesterday. One of the big Adobe uh uh
competitors, but the analysts there
saying that by 2026 we're going to get
fully editable and multi-layered videos
and Adobe is maybe falling behind there.
Danny, thank you. With the latest there,
Adobe down 1.3%. On our raise out this
morning, President Trump's tax and
spending bill passing the Senate heading
back to the House ahead of a
self-imposed July 4th deadline. Spoken
by Johnson facing an uphill battle with
some members unhappy with the Senate's
version. Speaker McCarthy speaking to us
just moments ago, saying the only thing
stopping this bill from passing is the
weather in the nation's capital because
every congressman and women were
basically back in their districts
preparing for their July 4th parades and
seeing all their constituents. So now
what they're doing is they have to go
back to Washington. They're going to be
stuck there until they get this over the
finish line because guess who is going
to be truththing at them if they don't.
And this was Speaker McCarthy, former
Speaker McCarthy, his entire point. It
is easier to be a speaker and really try
to use that bully pulpit when Trump is
the president because he's going to go
on truth and basically say he's going to
primary you if you don't get behind his
one big beautiful bill. If I were a
moderate congresswoman, all I can tell
you is right now I would be saying
absolutely I'm not going to vote for it.
I think it's horrendous. Give me your
best offer. Because ultimately what you
have learned is if you do that, sure,
you'll get called names. You'll say you
it'll be primared and then you'll be
given all sorts of stuff for your people
that you can go back and say look what I
got for you. So, you know, watch for the
watch the space. To your point, it
worked in the Senate. Why wouldn't it
work in the House all over again? We
want to avoid the ping pong. Said that a
few times already so far this morning.
The Fed chair still very much under
pressure. He understands how it feels to
be facing some tension with the
president of the United States. He said
this though, and I think this is him
responding directly to the criticism
coming from the president of the United
States, essentially saying the Federal
Reserve would be cutting interest rates
if it wasn't for the tariffs announced
back on April 2nd. And he said this
before, we don't have a sense of exactly
how this is going to play into
inflation. And we are expecting to see a
pop in the next couple of CPI reads. the
dates on the calendar to watch. July
15th, August 12th, September 11th, those
are the three CPI prints that we get in
the United States before the next Fed
meeting where the Fed is actually
expected to cut rates, which is the
September meeting. And this is really
the question, will that be enough? Is
this going to really cause a pop in
inflation? And will they have enough
data to determine whether it's a
one-time increase or whether it is
prolonged in terms of inflation? More
economic data coming later. We're
counting down to ADP on the job side of
the dual mandate and then payrolls
tomorrow morning. wanted to squeeze in
Tesla. Deliveries expected to disappoint
later on. Analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg anticipating a 12%
year-over-year drop following a 13% drop
in the first quarter. This coming as CEO
Elon Musk feud with Trump ramps up once
more, putting some pressure on the
stock. I remember when we didn't care
about deliveries, when this wasn't a
story about actual cars. It was a story
about belief and faith and technology.
And it still is for some people. this
question of whether it is the robo taxi
front that really is going to propel
this stock higher. But ultimately that
feud gets all the more important because
that needs the president to sign off on
certain regulatory oversight or
frameworks to allow the robo taxis to
come. And the president was talking
about cars blowing up yesterday. So who
knows? Is that what he was talking
about? Hydro hydrocarbons. Hydrocar
should draw a distinction there. The
president says he didn't really like
EVs, but he he did buy one in front of
the whole world for his entire staff to
use, and I'm pretty sure they still have
it. Okay, that's the latest on Tesla.
Some more data coming up a little bit
later. On both Tesla and on this
economy, investors counting down to the
payrolls report. The estimate in our
survey expecting 110,000 jobs to be
added. Matt Lazelli of Deutsche Bank
writing something closer to 100K per
month is now likely enough to keep the
unemployment rate steady. Matt joins us
now for more. Matt, good morning. It's
good to see you. Good to see you, too.
This is the key debate going into
payrolls that we've taken this step down
that you can have numbers around 100k
and that doesn't mean you're increasing
slack in the labor market. What's
changed? Yeah. So I I I think to put
this into context, if you go back to
last year, there was San Francisco Fed
analysis that was saying the break even
number for payrolls was above 200,000
and that was reflect reflecting big
immigration surge, big pickup in labor
supply and to absorb that labor supply,
you just needed to add 200,000 plus
jobs. I think as we look ahead that's
just changing materially. You know, you
cited the 100,000 number there. It could
be even lower than that. If you think
about, you know, immigration flows uh
both the fact that we're not having uh
inflows coming in, but also deportations
have picked up. It is very possible that
the break even numbers 50 to 75,000 uh
as we look ahead and that just means you
know as economists as the market we need
to view this jobs report within a
different context. 50 to 75 this year
could actually be a fine payroll's
number. But as you note, I think it
would be most important what happens
with the unemployment rate, what happens
with other measures of labor market
slack, what happens with wage growth
because that determines that the Fed's
uh policy. That determines whether it's
a good number or a bad number since the
headline number doesn't matter. I'm
looking right now at City Analysts. They
came out and they're expecting 85,000
total payroll job growth, but they're
expecting the unemployment rate to rise
to 4.4%. Would that be a bad read? And
how does it differ from what you expect?
That would be a bad read. I I think if
you get a two-tenth rise in the
unemployment rate uh on Thursday, the
market is going to respend quite respond
quite negatively to that. Our own
expectations are 100,000 for jobs and a
4.3% unemployment rate. If you go back
to to the May jobs report, it almost
rounded up to 4.3%. We were at 4.24%.
Um so I think you you need to view the
the the headline numbers in the context
of the overall report, in the context of
what we get from Jolts and those data
points as Well, I think the Jolts data
yesterday, which was for May,
backward-looking, but nonetheless was a
solid report. The quits rate rose, the
layoff rate was lower, job openings
picked up substantially. I think that's
a report that, you know, could allow the
Fed to continue to say the labor market
is solid pending tomorrow's jobs report.
I feel like this is defining the word
'the'. Everyone looks at the same data
and comes out saying it was solid and
other people say, "Look, it was really
weak." If you look under the hood, the
Jolts data in particular, you did see a
rise in the uh in the headline number of
job openings. But when you take a look
at where these openings were, it was
leisure and hospitality. And there's a
theory out there that this is a direct
ramification from immigration policies.
There aren't enough immigrants for some
of these uh these areas. So they have to
hire other workers and quickly and
that's one reason why quits are up and
you could see this one industry kind of
skewing all the results. What's your
response to that? Yeah, so I think in
the other data points such as quits, you
actually saw a more broad-based kind of
increase in stabilization. You're you're
right that on the job openings data uh
leisure and hospitality was a key driver
of that. When you look at the other
elements of the report, what you see is
total separations did pick up. So it
does look like, you know, the they're
losing jobs. The quits rate did actually
pick up for leisure and hospitality
meaningfully. So that could reflect some
some decline in in labor supply. Hiring
is picking up substantially alongside of
that. So it does look like they were
able to actually fill those jobs in May
so far. And I think it's just a really
interesting early read on what a a
negative shock to labor supply could do
to the labor market because the quits
rates higher, job openings to unemployed
is higher is signaling higher wage
growth in the leisure and hospitality
sector. So it could be actually a
tightening of the labor market. Now
could you get a sequencing issue here
where payrolls are actually a little bit
weaker before you get that tightness. I
think that's always possible. Building
on Lisa's question, the individuals now
potentially going for those jobs in
leisure and hospitality, are they asking
for more wages? So we don't really see
it yet. And again, that kind of might be
a timing issue, but what I'm looking at
is the quits rate leading wage growth.
The quits rate has picked up
substantially in leisure and
hospitality. It's actually picked up a
little bit in construction as well. It
is giving you a forward-looking signal
that wage growth could be picking up in
those those sectors as we look ahead.
Just got some data from Challenger. I
always wonder what am I meant to do with
this data. This is the headline for you.
First half 25 job cuts 744,38
the most since the first half of 2020.
Sounds absolutely dreadful. first half
of 20 was dreadful. What is this data?
What does it mean to you? So, I I was
looking at the the same data. If you
actually look at the data for June, it
it declined substantially. It's actually
down year-over-year. And so, the pickup
in um that in in job cut announcements
that they have was primarily three or
four months ago and it was primarily
government driven. So, they highlighted
several hundred thousand of of
government job uh losses. I think as you
look through broader data, there's just
really no evidence that layoffs have
picked up. Initial jobless claims are
actually quite low. The Jolts layoff
data yesterday actually declined. The
challenger data today was actually lower
than it was was a year ago. But it's a
labor market that is defined by low
hiring and low firing. And so, you know,
if you have a job, you're doing quite
well. If you don't have a job, it's
difficult to find one. Final word on the
Federal Reserve. You put out a piece in
the past few weeks. Thought it was
fantastic. The difference between
division and uncertainty at the Federal
Reserve. What's the importance between
the two? What's the difference? Where do
you settle you and the team? Yeah, I
think the thing is you look at the the
Fed's forecasts, you know, they talk a
lot about uncertainty and no doubt
there's a lot of uncertainty, but the
the modal difference between a lot of
them is not not all that large. What is
very different is that if you look at um
the two most likely outcomes for Fed
officials this year, it's zero cuts or
two cuts. It's a 50 basis point
difference and we're only six months out
from from that outcome. It's very
unusual that you have that degree of
division and you've just very clearly
seen that in the Fed speak as well.
You've had, you know, some Fed officials
coming out talking about a July cut as
early as July, while most other Fed
officials, including the chair, I think,
has indicated that seems unlikely.
Chairman also hurting cats down in
Washington. He's not the only one. Matt
Lasal Day of Deutsche Bank. Matt, thank
you, sir. Thank you. Appreciate it.
Thank you, sir. More data later on this
morning. Keep repeating at 8:15 Eastern
time, the NDP employment report with an
update on stories elsewhere with your
Bloomberg brief. Back with us, here's
Yhira. Hey, Yahra. Hi, John. French
Presidents Emanuel Mcronone and Russian
leader Vladimir Putin had their first
phone call yesterday since 2022. In
their discussions, they agreed to
coordinate their approach on Iran.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg
it's part of an effort to forge a common
approach on Iran between the permanent
members of the UN Security Council.
Meanwhile, Paramount Global has reached
a settlement with President Trump. this
over a lawsuit alleging election
interference by CBS News when it showed
two different versions of a 60 Minutes
interview with Kla Harris airing just
before the election. Paramount agreed to
pay $16 million including plaintiff's
fees. Trump had sought damages of $20
billion.
And in sports, top ranked tennis stars
are having a rough go in the first round
of play at Wimbledon. The tournament saw
a record tying 23 seated players
eliminated in the first round, including
women's number two Cocoa Golf. That
comes just weeks after she won the
French Open. Number one seeds Arena
Sabalena and Carlos Okarez both take the
court later today. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John Sabalanka is absolutely
awesome. Thank you, Yihara. More from
Yihara in the next hour. Up next on the
program, the president taking on Chair
Pal. No inflation. Our country is
strong. Our interest rate should be
three points lower. But we have a
at the head of the Fed. He's a
That conversation up next with Joe
Leavony, the councelor to Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson from New York.
This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Equity
futures just about positive. We're up
0.1%. Not much price action this morning
on the equity side. The Russell doing
nicely. The small caps up by 0.7%.
Under Savannah this morning, the
president once again taking on Chairpow.
No inflation. Our country is strong. Our
interest rate should be three points
lower. If our interest rate was three
points lower, that's almost a trillion
dollars in cost. And it's done just by
the signing of a pen. But we have a
at the head of the F. He's a
It's the latest this morning.
President Trump piling the pressure back
on Fed chair Jay Pal to cut interest
rates. Chairman Pal snapping back.
we went on hold uh when we when we saw
the size of the tariffs and where and
essentially all all inflation forecasts
for the United States went up materially
as a consequence of the tariffs. So uh
we we didn't overreact. In fact, we
didn't react at all. We're we're simply
taking some time. Joining us now to
discuss this and a whole lot more on the
US economy, Joe Leavia, the councelor to
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson. Joe,
welcome back to the program. Sir, the
words of Chairman Pal, we didn't react
at all. We're simply taking some time.
Why is his position not a convincing
one?
Let let me say this, Jonathan. The the
fact is that the tariffs, whether you
look at the PC, the CPI, import prices,
all those metrics actually decelerated.
So, not only did the consensus get it
wrong, where inflation didn't pick up,
it actually fell. Uh the chair likes to
look at the super core metric which is
services excluding rents and energy and
that's actually fallen about a point
point plus since last September when the
Fed first began cutting. So many metrics
show that inflation pressures are
actually decelerating which obviously
means that real interest rates uh are
expanding meaning they're rising. So I
don't want to be critical of the Fed per
se. The president's done a his own has
given his own spiel and and and made
some very powerful arguments why rates
should should fall. But there's no
question the inflation news has been
much better than anybody thought. And
tariffs as we've said many times as
Secretary Besson has said are not
inflationary. Tariffs are if if they
happen and they haven't impacted the
domestic economy. It's a price level
adjustment. But Joe, we're still waiting
for the tariff rates and the president
is saying he's not moving the date next
week. When I speak to individuals that
are sitting on the other side of the US
trade representative or Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson, they say that
they have been told and given assurances
by this administration that if they are
in good faith negotiations that that
deadline could be pushed back. Is that
your understanding?
Well, that's what Secretary Besson has
said and Secretary Lutnik recently said
about 10 to 12 countries are very close
to a deal. There's about another 20 that
are also negotiating in good faith and
Secretary Bessant recently highlighted
that many deals could be done by Labor
Day. So there's a lot of good progress.
But on the tariffs, I just want to be
clear, the the consensus view among
almost everybody was that tariffs would
start to impact the data in March. It
didn't happen in March. It didn't happen
in April. It didn't happen in May. And
we know there's a big number associated
with the revenue. We could have 300
billion uh of tariff revenue this year
uh that's coming in. And so we've got
this huge increase in revenue. So
they're there. And the reason the
tariffs aren't impacting things in large
part is because foreign producers, as we
learned from the first Trump
administration, are absorbing it in
their margin. When it comes to Japan
specifically, the president said that
they're spoiled and he talked about the
fact that maybe he's going to go for 30
35% rate. On a liberation day, they only
had a 24% rate. Do you see any country
going above April 2nd rates?
the the president is a very tough
negotiator and uh I'm I'm confident that
whatever winds up happening with Japan
and everyone else is going to be in the
US best interest. This is a negotiation
and again as Secretary Beston's
highlighted many times as long as
countries are negotiating in good faith
uh that's a positive and then we take it
from there. But I do expect as the
secretary said there there are deals
forthcoming. The market response to all
of this has been pretty much a shrug.
We've seen new record highs for equity
markets except the dollar has continued
to weaken and weakened to some of the
lowest levels, weakest levels going back
to 2022. At what point is that a concern
for you? Uh Lisa, first of all, a lot of
that weakness is uh is visav the euro.
If you look at the Fed's real broad
trade weighted index, which is about 26
countries as a as opposed to I believe
the the Bloomberg DXY I think is only
six or seven. It's a small small sample.
If you look at the real broad if you the
real broad trade weighted index, uh it's
close to one of the highest readings we
you know we've had since the Plaza
Accord back in in 1985. So this notion
that somehow there's the selling of US
assets that the dollar is weak. Uh some
major financial outlets have talked
about that's completely incorrect. It's
in it's not consistent with the uh with
the tick data. Uh it's not inconsistent
with the recent BIS report which talked
about some of the selling uh of assets
in April. brief period of selling uh was
actually due to hedging. Uh it wasn't
due to lack of demand for US assets. So
the dollar is the reserve currency. The
dollar will be strong. Uh the dollar is
still strong and um I think those
concerns are greatly misplaced. There is
though this building worry about
monetizing the debt in order to pay for
some of this bill. this idea that you
want to run the economy hot, this
emphasis on growth in order to offset
the increase in the deficit at the same
time that you're counting on inflation
not to pick up. How do you sort of
square that the idea that in the past
when you run the economy hot, it
typically has come along with inflation,
especially at times where there have
been disruptions to supply chains? Yeah.
Well, I you know, in the first Trump
administration, growth was nearly 3%. It
actually at 3.4% 4% in the fourth
quarter year on year in 2019 and
inflation didn't pick up. The one big
beautiful bill which uh is making its
way through the Congress as you know
increases supply side incentives to get
growth to remain robust through capital
investment and capital deepening.
Inflation will continue to fall. The
inflation news has been great and that's
the thing. If you look at the bond
market, the equity markets rallied on a
second half boom and bond market yields
are down substantially from where they
were earlier in the year. So the capital
markets are really responding very
positively to what they expect on the
inflation side. Break even inflation's
been stable. So again this notion
somehow that inflation is going to pick
up that growth leads to faster inflation
this Philips curve mindset if you will
uh completely wrong. Uh we saw under the
first Trump administration as they said
very strong growth and um and and low
inflation. And by the way I al want to
add the big problem with the CBO's
numbers is they're only assuming 1.8%
and 8% GDP growth. That's woefully at
woefully too low. If we have a 17.2%,
you know, revenue share of GDP, which is
basically where we are now, and we grow
at a much more plausible and realistic
3%. That gives you something like an
extra almost an extra trillion dollars
in revenue relative to what CBO was
forecasting back in January. And that's
not even adding the revenues that are
coming from the tariffs. So this notion
that these deficits are going to stay
super high and grow completely I think
incorrect because it's based on a
facious assumption of sub 2% growth
which is very very weak. That's the
argument the president's making this
morning so far. Joe, just before you go,
how much outreach is happening at the
Treasury and from the White House just
to communicate to the public that the
payrolls report might change? Just the
numbers, what's considered good given
the amount of immigration we had over
the last several years and what's
considered good now is going to change?
That maybe 100k now is actually a decent
number when 100k a few years ago with
mass migration crossing the southern
border wasn't a good number. Do we have
to reframe what's good and what's bad in
this labor market? No, I don't. No, I
mean, as you know, the payroll numbers
are subject to significant revision. The
income numbers are actually been very
good. If you look at the compensation
figures in real terms, they're
accelerating. If you look at bluecollar
wages, average hourly earnings for super
non-supervisory production workers are
up almost 2%. The first five months of
President Trump's term, that's the best
five months effectively to start a new
administration ever going back 60 years.
So, the income trends are great. The
unemployment rate is going to stay low.
And again, if we get the one big
beautiful bill, Jonathan, that is going
to get rid of a lot of get rid of a lot
of the uncertainty that's there in the
market where companies can make capital
plans accordingly. They're not worrying
about tax rates going up because again,
if you look at small businesses, the the
pass through businesses, the chap the
chapter S companies, they're paying the
marginal rate. So, when they get some
certainty on that and they create 40% of
the jobs, you're going to see these
labor markets tighten and growth
accelerate in the second half of the
year. Hey Joe, appreciate your time as
always. It's John there, the councelor
to Treasury Secretary Scott Besson on
the labor market there. No worries about
the jobs market into Thursday payrolls.
No, it's hot and that's essentially
where we're at and it gets revised. So
if it's a bad number, look for the
revision. Could make a good Fed speech.
Hey, what you think? Is that where
you're going to go with it? Okay. Well,
you can keep the Who else? How's that
work? You know, might work out. Up next,
the third hour of Bloomberg surveillance
just around the corner.
There's broad participation in the
market, but the magnitude of the upside
is just in a handful of names. It's been
a very nuanced move in terms of
inequity. There still is a tremendous
amount of demand for bonds. There's a
tremendous amount of demand for
treasuries. We're uncomfortable with
where multiples are, which is why we
think that you're likely to have a
pullback. The risks are known and you
know once the market kind of knows risk
they can deal with it. This is Bloomberg
surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz and An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning to all. The third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
This hour a focus on jobs data. The ADP
employment report about 15 minutes away.
The scores going into it look like this.
Equity futures totally unchanged on the
S&P 500. Down some 210 of 1% on the
NASDAQ 100. Anticipating the big one
tomorrow morning, 8:30 Eastern time. The
payrolls report just around a corner. A
lot of economists coming on this program
in the past few days or so, preparing us
for a low number. Peter Cheer of
Academy. There is a real risk. The data
is very disappointing and part of the
disappointment stems from the fact that
we're just in a low churn market with
less dynamism and fewer workers
particularly because of the decline in
immigration. This is what I think you
were getting at and I thought it was a
really good question uh to Joe Leavia
about how does the administration
message this at a time when potentially
a low number doesn't mean that
everything is falling off a cliff. That
said, it raises a question about whether
the new market is less dynamic, less
forgiving, and potentially more fragile
to any potential shock. Kevin Hasset,
the NEC director, come on down. We need
to have that conversation, don't we? I
think it's important. What do you say?
If it's a really low number, do you
still say that this is a robust economy?
Do you say this is reason for Fed Chair
Jay Powell to cut? Do you say it's fake
numbers and will get revised? Or all of
the above and see what sticks? Most of
the people that have come on the program
have said, "Yes, I expect a low number,
but the low number isn't a bad one." And
look elsewhere. Look at the unemployment
rate that you could have something like
100k, but unemployment wouldn't actually
climb. And if that's the case, is it
okay? Is this fine? Is this good enough
to suggest that yes, this is a solid
labor market that doesn't cause the Fed
to have to cut rates in July, but it
isn't necessarily a red alarm in terms
of equities. So, you're in this
Goldilock scenario where you could still
get a rate cut in September without the
riskoff kind of move that you could get
in equities. Can you look through
weakness? Because we're getting clarity
elsewhere. That's the theme of the next
hour or so. Clarity on two issues, on
taxes, on trade down in Washington.
Speaker McCarthy, the former speaker of
the House, who knows a lot about how
procedurally this is all going to work,
says the only thing holding up this
passing through the House of
Representatives is the weather in
Washington DC. And he seems pretty
optimistic that the Freedom Caucus will
fold once again like they did in 2017 as
well when it comes to this bill and that
maybe this gets on the president's desk
July 4th. After that interview with Joe
Leavia, the tariff situation seems to be
a bit muddled. You have the Treasury
Secretary Joe Leavier coming out and
saying, "Well, we have to Memorial Day."
The president made it very clear
yesterday there will be no extensions
and we have to only next week, July 9th.
But classic Trump, escalate to
deescalate, maximalist approach, the
very end of a negotiation to try to get
the most concessions when it comes to
these trading partners. Policy matters
to markets, not just in the US. Check
out the UK this morning. scene in
parliament a little bit earlier when the
prime minister did not back his
chancellor 100%.
And what looked like a tear rolling down
the cheek of Chancellor Reeves. Well, a
tear rolling down the cheek of this bond
market in the UK at the moment. Guilts
are down, yields are higher by 15 basis
points. Sterling with that move is
weaker, not stronger. That's the kind of
toxic mix that you don't like to see in
developed markets. losing credibility
which is a real question especially as
some of the key people in the seats uh
that are in charge of these policies are
undermined on some sort of level yields
up Sterling weaker more on that story
later this hour coming up this hour Jim
Karen and Morgan Stanley with stocks
holding a three-day winning streak Dan
Ives of Wed Bush on the feud between
Trump and Musk and Kathy Boschantic of
Nationwide with Feder J pal very much in
wait and see mode we begin this hour
with stock study ahead of payroll due
out tomorrow Jim Karen of Morgan Stanley
writing, "We think data slogs through
which provides room for upside earning
surprises in the second half of the
year." Jim joins us now for more. Jim,
good morning. Good morning. You've said
it. This is the half where maybe clarity
replaces uncertainty. A reason to be
confident. I think it is. Um, look, you
know, there's a lot of things that are
going on. Um, I will agree with the fact
that I do think that the data is going
to weaken. I think that the growth rate
is going to fall. I think the
unemployment rate is going to rise and I
believe that inflation due to tariff
pricing is going to rise. This is
exactly what the Fed's forecast is. My
next question is will that matter to
markets? The markets know this, right?
We know this that this is happening.
Yet, when you look at equity prices
continuing to push through, it begs the
question, what else is going on? And
what I think what else is going on is
that the markets are looking through
this as a soft patch. And they're
thinking about 2026. They're thinking
about this uh tax budget, one big
beautiful bill as they call it. Um and
that adding some potential stimulus,
capex, spending, AI, productivity, all
these various things. All I'm saying is
that I think that people are
underappreciating the risk to the
upside. And you've heard me say that
many times before on your show, the risk
to the upside. You're not alone. We've
talked about a pain trade being the
equity market moving up and to the right
and not down. I want to understand just
to stress test the theory a little bit.
What happens if we get a big downside
surprise tomorrow on payrolls? How
forgiving are we in this market? So, so
I think the Fed is primed the pump to
cut interest rates, right? I I don't
think it's coming in July, but it could
come as early as September. If you start
to see some weakening in the labor
report, I don't think that Powell will
be able to resist that. I think he's
going to have to cut and he could start
cutting aggressively. And this is what I
call like the upside convexity to
prices. So, we're in a situation right
now where we do think that as we move
into 2026, things could get better in
terms of earnings, earnings growth rates
and and what have you. On top of that,
you could have yields going down.
Remember, yields are supposed to be
going up because of this budget, not
down, and they've been relatively
stable. So, we have to bring this all
into the mix and really think about this
diagnostically and and come to a
conclusion which uh really kind of
leaves the bond market in the same place
that it's been at least in the long end
for quite a while which is the reason
why people have gained some comfort from
that. On the earning side though,
there's been huge disagreement on the
street about how much the uh tariffs are
going to cause a hit to to profit
margins. you take the other side of what
the Goldman Sachs analysts recently put
out, which is it's going to be a bigger
hit than we can currently expect. Why?
Well, well, I I think that we have to
understand that we have to look at the
run rate of of this. So, if we look at
first quarter, first quarter earnings,
the the delivery of first quarter
earnings were relatively strong.
Normally, analysts would take up their
earnings estimates based on that, but
they didn't. They took them down because
you got into April, you got into all the
tariff related activity. Second quarter
earnings are probably going to be
relatively decent, right? We likely have
good second quarter GDP growth, just a
recovery from the first quarter. So the
way that we estimate it, it's not that
the earnings rate is going to
necessarily accelerate higher. It's just
that the estimates from many analysts
are relatively depressed to where they
otherwise ordinarily would be given the
recent run in earnings that we've had.
In other words, you in a normal year,
you would have seen earnings upgrades by
about $10 to 12 right now. And what
you've seen is a decline in earnings by
about $10. So essentially what I'm
saying is that the markets could have
the earnings number underestimated
relative to to the run rate of what it
would be by about $10. So I think
there's some cushion here. How much is
that story divorced from the underlying
economy? How much is it focused in
artificial intelligence and tech
companies and banks that have gotten
deregulated? Look, capex is the mother's
milk, right? You know, so so who who's
investing right now? large cap tech
who's been doing really well over the
past couple of months. Large cap tech.
What we have to recognize is that in
this deficit or in this budget bill I
should say and I know it does add to the
deficit but in this in this budget bill
that's coming through productivity is a
large portion of this and the removal of
a lot of government oversight and
shifting government sponsored growth
into more private sector sponsored
growth is a real positive. It's really
hard. You can't go on your Bloomberg
terminal and say how is deregulation uh
doing today up or down like what's the
tick? We can't track that dayto day.
There's a number of policies. Look at
the um ESLR, the enhanced supplementary
leverage ratio, right? This has dropped
Treasury yields by quite a bit. This is
a meaningful impact. Do people talk
about within this uh uh budget plan all
of the deregulation that's going to be
codified? That's going to remove some of
the government um you know I guess
actions um you know on companies. That's
that's the positive. That's what
companies are seeing. That's why they're
investing. That's why they're spending.
That's why they're doing the capex.
We've complained in the past they have
no visibility. Once this budget passes,
I think they're going to have
visibility. I'm not a cheerleader for
the Trump administration. I am just
calling balls and strikes here. This is
the way that I see this unraveling and I
believe it's underappreciated by
markets. That's one part of the policy
uncertainty though. What about companies
dealing with the headwind of tariffs? So
this is a good question, right? You
know, so essentially how much have the
tariffs been absorbed by either the
consumer or by companies and and profit
margins, right? So ultimately the way
that we think about it is that tariffs
are attacks on profit margins. We've
seen that and and essentially what the
markets have said is once we know what
the tariff rate is going to be and we
are closer to certainty on this, right?
We we're getting closer to knowing
exactly what the effective rate is that
what markets are saying is that this is
a one-off price shock. Companies will
absorb this. It's definitely a hit. This
is why 2025 looks a little bit uh
worrisome, but then going into 2026,
it's like you clean the slate and you
start to move forward because it's not
an ongoing thing. But markets are
forward-looking. So if we think this in
2026, it's going to get priced in 2025
at some point. It might not be until the
fourth quarter really, but I think this
is what's going on. It speaks to what's
happening elsewhere. Goldman bringing in
their first rate cut call for the
Federal Reserve. Yan Hans and a team
going to September from December. That
seems to be the direction of travel at
the moment because they don't
necessarily see the price shock
continuing past that. I just wonder if
you have a market that's being or an
economy rather that's being run hot, can
we get the growth that President Trump
is talking about without the inflation
that would accompany it without
consumers accepting higher prices and
companies getting used to that and kind
of liking it and doing it again. He
certainly thinks we can get that growth
sometime soon. I hope we can. Jim, this
was a clinic as always, sir. Thank you.
Thank you. Appreciate it. Jim Karen of
Morgan Stanley, if you're following
events in the UK, it's difficult to keep
up at the moment. We'll get you an
update in just a moment. But I can bring
you the price action just briefly.
Sterling was a whole lot weaker. It's
bouncing back just a touch and then
rolled over again. We're negative by
7/10en of 1%. The move in the bond
market. Yields are on a 10-year maturity
by some 14 basis points. With an update
on that and more, let's get to your
Bloomberg brief with you. Hey yra.
Exactly John. Well, that's because UK
Chancellor of the Checker Rachel Reeves
visibly upset during this morning's PMQs
as you can see in this video. That's
because when Prime Minister Kier Starmer
was asked to repeat his pledge that
Reeves would be in her post at the next
general election, he avoided answering.
Starmer's office adding later that
Reeves has not offered her resignation.
The UK Treasury saying any tears were
due to a personal matter. Meanwhile,
here President Trump's tax and spending
bill is back in the House. After barely
passing the Senate, Vice President JD
Vance had to cast the tiebreaking vote.
Now it faces another uphill battle by
House Republicans who don't like some of
the changes. Moderates are worried about
Medicaid cuts and fiscal hawks are
vowing to oppose it over its impact on
the deficit. Meanwhile, Manhattan home
sales surged in the second quarter to
the most in almost 2 years. According to
appraiser Miller Samuel and brokerage
Douglas Elellman, more than 3,000 co-op
and condo purchases closed in the
quarter. That's a 17% jump from a year
earlier. Cash buyers of course drove the
Manhattan sales. That's your Bloomberg
brief, John. Prem down, right, Yahara?
Thank you. Is this premi? You think that
people are just going to wholesale,
leave, and go to Florida? You try the
Florida weather right now. I'm saying
I'm saying a lot of rich people have
been wholesaling leaving. Governor of
New York admitted it. She was asked,
"You're going to raise taxes?" And she
says, and they said, "Even on the rich
and she goes, I can't lose anyone else
to Palm Beach." That was We're going to
have this debate all through 2025
through to November. Up next on the
program, the morning calls plus Dan Ives
of Wed Bush on the feud between the
president and Elon Musk. That's coming
up next. Plus some jobs data in America.
The EDP report just around the corner.
[Music]
What do you do with the ADP report? It's
the question we ask every single month.
Equities right now just about unchanged
on the S&P. This number anything but
unchanged. It looks a little different
this morning. Mike McKe joins us for
more. Good morning, Mike. looks a little
bad this morning and it certainly will
get Wall Street's attention and maybe a
little bit at the Fed, but as Lisa will
tell us, it doesn't really matter
because they're not very accurate in
forecasting the NFP numbers on Friday.
But as you say, a negative 33,000 print,
that's the first one in some time. We'll
look that up. Uh right now, it looks
like a lot of that comes from the
service providing sector down 66,000
jobs. Professional and business services
lost 56,000. They say education and
health care services lost 52,000. Now
remember, education and health care is
the big number every month. The one that
adds the most jobs in the payrolls
report. Uh the uh construction jobs were
up 9,000. We everybody's been watching
that to see if there's an immigration
impact. And manufacturing jobs, they say
up 15,000. Remember yesterday we got
that ISM manufacturing number that uh
hit a multi-month low of just 45. Uh the
other number that they put out is the
pay changes for job stayers 4.4% in last
month. Job changers up 6.8%. Those are
not numbers that uh if they were
accurate the Fed would be particularly
happy about. So overall a really
negative number and uh we'll see what uh
we get tomorrow. But Mike, I think this
is the stress test at the moment. If you
get a number like that one, and this
one's terrible, but if we get something,
let's say 50k tomorrow, it's a low
number, a weak number, and we're going
to be having this conversation. Is it
about immigration or is it about the
economy? Mike, how do you get a read on
that at the moment? Well, what you're
going to have to do tomorrow, John, is
first look to the unemployment rate
because that's what the Fed is going to
look to as a sign that the economy is
slowing. And then we have to deconstruct
that. Is it because the labor force
fell? Is it because there was a
particular amount of hiring or a
particular high number of people going
into unemployment? So, that's that's
where I would look first tomorrow to get
a feel for it. Now, obviously, if we get
a very small number, 50,000 as you
mentioned, that would set off a lot of
alarm bells on Wall Street, but I'm not
sure it would set up uh the Fed to do
anything in July. All the focus there
would turn to the inflation number on
July 15th. And uh if they got a
combination of falling inflation and bad
jobs numbers, then it might put it on
the table. Mike McKe, thank you, sir.
Mike McKe on this jobs report for
tomorrow and the ADP number we just got
just moments ago. More from Mike in just
a moment. So if you're just tuning in,
negative 33,000 on ADP. Now, typically
we don't care about ADP and maybe this
morning most of you still don't care
about ADP. But the conversation we're
going to have around this number is very
similar to the conversation we'll have
going into payrolls tomorrow morning.
It's that low number. the consequence of
tightening up immigration and it's not
something to worry about or is it a
reflection of a weaker economy? That
debate is just going to be ongoing
through today into tomorrow and maybe
out the other side as well. And the real
issue as Mike was talking about is the
Fed is sort of on the sidelines
regardless because of the confusion
around this number. You can't identify
it necessarily as being bad uh per se
even though that is the first negative
number going back at least two years. So
even for ADP it is unusual to see this
type of number even for well I mean you
can discredit them all you want but
there are certain most months we do and
yeah but right now the market's not
because twoear yields fell from the high
that they were almost five basis points
on the heels of this down two basis
points on a session now to 375 that's
some of the price action let's get you
some morning calls first off Wolf
downgrading Stalantis to underperform
citing risk from North America to this
year and next year's earnings our second
call from Goldman initiating coverage of
Deckers with a sales site ing a less
attractive riskreward than competitors
in the short term. That stock is down a
third of 1%. And your third and final
call from Jeffre upgrading Apple to hold
expecting pulling demand from tariffs to
drive earnings growth. A stick with a
Mac 7. Tesla shares under pressure as
the feud between President Trump and
Elon Musk reignites.
We might have to put Doge on Elon. You
know, you know DOA is DOA is the monster
that have that might have to go back and
eat Elon. Wouldn't that be terrible? He
gets a lot of subsidies.
Dan out of Wedbush writing the
following. We believe this situation
will settle and at the end of the day,
Musk needs Trump and Trump needs Musk.
Dan joins us now for more. Good morning,
sir. What's that last line about? What
does that mean? Why do they need each
other? I mean, Trump needs Musk just
given Republican support and and
ultimately at the end of the day in
terms of autonomous AI, Musk is
obviously going to be one of the leaders
in this country. So, I think when it
comes to to the AI race and autonomous,
Trump does need Musk as well as
obviously Republican support. Musk needs
Trump because fundamentally you just
cannot have this BFF situation now go to
an enemy in the White House especially
when it comes to the autonomous roadmap
which is so important uh you know not
just for Musk but of course for Tesla.
Let's talk about one of the businesses
and it's the business that falls under
your coverage. It is Tesla. The
subsidies are going to be phased out.
They're going away. This was
anticipated. What does it mean for the
business in the meantime? Look I think
that I mean that was that was
anticipated. I think the bigger focus
here is it's all about autonomous. I
mean when I look at 90% of the future
value is ultimately going to be about
autonomous robotics and that's the
future. It all comes down to when Trump
came in the goal was that this is going
to be a fasttracked an autonomous road
map in terms of a framework from a
federal perspective. So I think the
worry and the reason the stock was down
yesterday is does that is that still
there? In other words, does this
situation start to settle? I believe it
does, but the last thing as a Tesla
shareholder or Tesla bull that you want
to see is Mus just putting himself more
and more into that political theater
because there's really no upside from a
Tesla perspective. Don't you have to
push back your expectation for any kind
of regulatory framework that would be
beneficial to Tesla in the near term to
get the robo taxi program off the uh off
the ground? Yeah, it's a great question.
Look, it all comes down too to like
China because look, this is an arms race
going on. So Trump knows Whimo, look,
Whimo has obviously been very
successful, but still five cities, very
expensive cars. The horse in the race is
going to be Tesla in terms of to scale
with what China is doing. So it comes
down to, you know, in this US China
battle, Tesla, just like Nvidia is
actually a chip on the table. So, I do
believe that you will actually continue
to see this fast track despite the sort
of back and forth that we're seeing.
Look, it's essentially like a junior
high situation, right? They went from
BFFs now sort of enemies, but I view
this as something where for Tesla, it's
going to be a near-term o overhang that
I do think dissipates. Are investors
pushing back more? Because this has been
a faith-based stock for a long time.
Suddenly, we're getting deliveries that
still don't matter, at least in your
eyes, or a lot of people's eyes, if you
believe this really is a robo taxi
story. At what point do people say,
"Really, we're not seeing it." With the
shares down 25% so far this year, and
frankly, they're in an industry that is
under a secular challenge at a time of a
lot of potential headwinds and a lot of
political drama. Yeah, look, I think
sentiment is as negative as I've seen in
a few years relative to especially the
actual business deliveries. You'll get
one this morning. That's definitely
going to be pretty soft delivery number.
But it all but it does come down to in
terms of the proven situation. Does robo
taxi scale? I believe it's 20 25 cities
in the next year. You start to see that
in terms of geoence within Austin that
expands. They go to more and more
cities. Then investors like okay as an
AI play when you think about physical AI
Nvidia and Tesla to me are the best pure
play physical AI plays but it's proving
it and now you're look just like if you
look at Apple and Tesla they're in the
penalty box from an if you think about
even mag 7 where on the other side of
course you got godfather of AI Jensen
you got Redmond and Nadella you have
Meta and Zach so there's a separation
going on Apple and Tessa is right here
in that penalty box. I want to come back
to when you said at the start to John's
opening line about how you think Musk
and Trump both need each other. Doesn't
Musk need Trump a lot more? Of I mean we
we've said that it goes back to So why
does he keep poking the bear? Does that
not unnerve investors? Of course it look
the last thing you want to see is him
poking the bear. It comes down to like
there's nothing good going to come down
in terms of him doing it. And I think
that's why every time he does that, it
just creates this cycle in terms of
Trump, you know, going back and it's the
last thing you want to see because as
we've talked about a lot on the show,
obviously took huge steps back from
Doge, Trump administration took on a
life of its own, but now he keeps shots
across the bow. It's not what you want
to see. Just quickly before you go,
quick word on Apple. Good or bad news,
they're looking beyond Certino for the
AI solution. It's clock shock midnight
is what they need to do. You happy with
that? You cannot stay on the treadmill.
Look, we were WWDC. You almost fell
asleep during that event, right? I mean,
the point is is that this is the time in
the AI arms race. You can't be on the
backwards treadmill time warp back to
2017 where every other big tech company
is going forward. Perplexity, anthropic,
you they need to do something big. I
don't believe you ever sleep, but I'm
pleased you admitted it. Whenever I see
those events, I often fall asleep. Don't
you? Yeah, but you don't fall asleep if
your shirt is bright enough to keep you
awake. No, everyone else doesn't fall
asleep. I love it. Yeah, exactly. You
know, just start to wonder about the
paper clips. Love the paper clips. Yeah,
exactly. And I I look I mean the point
is I could I mean I think Pharaoh is
someone like an F1 raise. He he could
pull this. Okay. All right. Thank you,
sir. I'm not sure about that. Dan is a
wet push. Up next on the program, Kathy
Bosjansic of Nationwide on a big
downside surprise on the ADP report
going into payrolls tomorrow. Plus,
Danny Burgerer with your morning movers
and some optimism for that name right
there, Apple. The stock is higher by
1.2. 2% futures elsewhere just turning a
little bit negative in the bond market
yields down. As Lisa pointed out, the
front end of the curve will lower by two
or three basis points to 375.
[Music]
Let's just say this. If tomorrow at 8:30
Eastern time there is a negative sign
before the number, equities won't look
like this. Equity futures on the S&P
totally unchanged. On the NASDAQ 100,
we're down by 210 of 1%. Moments ago, 15
minutes ago, negative 33,000 on the ADP
report. Now, this is a report that
typically people don't put much weight
on. They question the credibility of it.
Not a great read through for payrolls
tomorrow, but an interesting
conversation nevertheless in the bond
market with yields down a single basis
376. Is it immigration? Is it the
economy? Or is it just ADP? which is
really the reason why you're not seeing
as big of a reaction as you would be
seeing as you said uh if this were the
numbers tomorrow. Look, it's the first
negative number since March of 2023 at a
time when you're seeing a shift in the
composition of where jobs are being
gained and where jobs are being lost.
And Mike McKe did a great job of
highlighting how in the goods producing
sectors, you're seeing job gains. In the
services sectors, you're seeing job
losses. This doesn't go here with the
Jolts data. This doesn't go here with a
whole host of other things. And it does
raise a question about a one-time shock
from immigration, but still something to
watch, something to think about. Got a
message from a Bloomberg subscriber.
Always say far smarter than me. Smartest
audience in the world. Turned around and
said, "Is this the future? The AI
economy where the output data is pretty
decent, but the jobs data is not great."
This is my fear. And that's why we keep
saying the economy is not the stock
market. The stock market is not the
economy. You ask G2 Patel of Cisco, who
is it going to be good for? Is it going
to be good for profits or is it going to
be good for humans? He was saying both.
How long does it take to get there? And
right now, are we going to see the
equity market continue to diverge from a
labor market that's kind of churning
under a lot of change? Too much doom.
We're done. All right, that was enough
of that. If you're just waking up this
morning, good morning. Tell you what,
we'll save that for another day. Not
good stuff. One hour away from the cash
open. Let's get you some morning movies
with Danny Burger. Hey, Danny. Hey,
John. We have to kick it off with
Centine again because we are at the lows
of the morning for the pre-market sess
session for this health insurer company
completely scrapped its guidance for
this year saying that it was looking
across states and it appears that the
amount that they usually get compensated
in order to take on more sick patients
will be less than they had assumed a hit
of $1.8 billion. So it and a lot of
other health insurers falling this
morning losses now nearing some 31% in
the session. We also have some sellside
upgrades this morning. One of them being
to Apple by Jeffrey. Shares are up 1.3%.
The key to the upgrade is China saying
that it looks like sales are going to be
looking better for the quarter thanks to
very targeted discounts. At the same
time though, the analysts there are
still warning on things like falling
behind on AI and the tariff disruption
to Apple. The final final upgrade comes
from Key Bank to Cava, the fast casual
Mediterranean restaurant, saying that it
really is in its own league. It has its
own category in terms of fast casual
Mediterranean that it apparently will do
to Mediterranean food. What Chipotle did
to Mexican food. I'm not sure whether
that's a good thing for the world, but
they say that's a good thing for Cava
shares. Up 2.6%. John Danny, you share
your thoughts. Thank you. Appreciate it.
Danny Burgerer with the latest there.
Let's share Lisa's thoughts with you
right now. Lisa, this bond market, not
in the US, in the UK, we're looking at a
20 basis point move at the long end of
the curve. Sterling's weaker. Bad mix
for the UK. that is pain. Taking pain
politically in the in the form of some
sort of fiscal restraint doesn't do well
politically. It does well in the bond
market. When you raise questions about
how much you are committed to those
types of budgets, those types of plans,
you see a fierce reaction certainly in
the UK. You haven't seen it as much in
the United States, but it really goes to
the credibility of the key people in
place and the ability to cut spending in
any kind of real way at a time of not
that fast growth. Policy volatility.
Yeah, once again questioning the
credibility of the British government
this morning and financial markets with
bonds lower, yields higher and a pound
weaker. Cable 13639 negative on the day
by 0.8%.
That's the UK. Let's focus on the US.
Let's get back to those job numbers. Is
this going to be a test for Chairman Pal
in the not too distant future? Numbers
out just moments ago from ADP in the
negative. Down a big downside surprise
on ADP negative 33,000. The estimate was
positive 98. With more, let's get Mike
McKe for a whole lot more. Mike McKe on
this the day tomorrow and the chairman
of the Federal Reserve. I don't think we
got a lot of uh additional news from J.
Powell yesterday. He basically repeated
what he and others at the Fed have been
saying for some time that they need more
information and of course next week we
get the reciprocal tariffs then there
are national security tariffs to come
etc. So they haven't got enough to go on
in terms of deciding whether or not they
can cut rates. Now if we get a really
bad payrolls number tomorrow it will
certainly raise questions in the markets
if not at the Fed. We're not expecting
that. We are expecting a slowdown.
110,000 jobs is what the consensus
forecast is at the moment unless people
incorporate this ADP into their
forecasts. And we see 100,000 as the
whisper number. Now, uh ADP private jobs
minus 33,000 this month. The survey week
for jobless claims was 246,000,
which is basically where it had been for
about four weeks before that. So, no
hints from there. But yesterday the ISM
manufacturing jobs number came in at 45
suggesting big job losses there. And
that's not what ADP found. They found a
gain in manufact a significant gain in
manufacturing jobs. So it does raise
some questions about ADP. We'll see who
turns out to be right. Now you mentioned
Lisa that this was the worst ADP number
since March of 2023.
Then at that time, ADP reported a loss
of 53,000
jobs, but non-farm payrolls were
reported the next day at 236,000.
Now, that sounds like a huge miss for
ADP and a really job bad job. But look,
we now have March non-farm payrolls
revised down to just 85,000.
The Fed won't have any revisions.
They'll have what the number is
tomorrow, but it just goes to show you
that ADP might have a hint in it, but
maybe not immediately. It's called the
random number generator for a reason.
Mike Michael McKe, thank you, sir. More
from my three today and tomorrow, ADP
-33. Joining us now for more Kathy
Bchansik of Nationwide. Kathy, got to
get your thoughts on that ADP report.
When people call you later and say,
Kathy, negative 33, that sounds
absolutely awful. What' you say back to
them? Yeah, good morning, John. Well, I
would caveat just as you have that
month-to-month ADP is not a good
indicator of non-farm payrolls. Um, over
time though, this two series do move
together. You know, they capture the
trends in the labor market. Um, but, you
know, I don't expect a negative print
and you never know, right? I mean,
you're forecasting minor changes in in a
labor force that's, you know, 140
million. Um, so certainly you could get
a negative print, but most likely we we
see a slowdown in in payroll growth. Um,
and we think that's not just, you know,
for for tomorrow's number, but over the
next couple months, we see this gradual
slowdown. And you were talking about the
churn. There's a lot of churn going on,
a lot of things hitting the economy,
tariffs, immigration changes, but it it
doesn't indicate to us that we're like
falling off a cliff. And Kathy, just sit
on the slow down, the step down. We've
gone from saying jobs growth is going to
be something like 200k to jobs growth is
going to be something like 150. And now
a lot of economists coming on the
program saying get ready for 100. Maybe
get ready for 50 to 75. And then the
conversation we have is okay. Is that a
reflection of immigration or a weak
economy? Kathy, which one is it?
It's both, I think. Um I think it's a
reflection of both. And I I think um the
tariffs and the uncertainty around that
is um really paralyzing businesses. You
see that that did come through in ADP
that and you see that all the the
anecdotal uh surveys to uh ISM and
Beigebook things like that that
businesses are just holding on right
now. They're not really hiring new
workers are not replacing them. U but
they're also not engaging in mass
layoffs. And that I think there's a crit
that's a critical difference. If the
economy was really hitting a hard stop,
layoffs would increase. You don't see
that in jobless claims and we're not
going to likely see that tomorrow. But
um just the slowing of hiring is is
critical and can slow down the pace. So
I would agree that we're we're poised
to, you know, at some point get down to
50 75,000. I think that's the low point.
You know, we're looking for GDP growth
to average about 1% in the second half
of the year. So, it's a meaningful
slowdown, but but not again, you're not
hitting a hard stop. We got jolts
yesterday, which completely flies in the
face of the ADP report that we just got
to John's point about a random number
generator. I feel like everything right
now is a bit of a random uh number
generator. How do you square the idea of
a still robust job openings figure that
came in much better than expected and a
quits rate that went up, which is a good
trend, meaning people feel like they
have the capacity to quit and then get
another job with a negative ADP report
and potentially really low payrolls
report tomorrow.
I it is hard to to square those two. I
mean, one thing I would say is the jolts
lag by a month, but more importantly, I
think Jolts is a bit of an outlier right
now. Um, I it may be because survey
responses are getting quite low there on
that survey. Um, but I think it it does
sort of balance if people are really
quite negliging,
the churn is happening. Um but we're not
seeing companies get extremely
pessimistic. They're just waiting and
seeing just like the Federal Reserve um
doesn't quite know what to to make of
the impact of tariffs on inflation
versus growth and and I think companies
are doing the same thing and they're
just in this holding pattern. Um I do
think the peak uncertainty is behind us
on tariffs. It does look like there's
going to be some trade deals, some
resolution. It's not going to be
uncertainty is not going to be being
removed completely but I think the fact
that um well going forward it should
lessen that should help loosen things a
little bit. You know just to add to the
noise and the confusion ISM
manufacturing came out yesterday and the
employment component actually came in
below where people expected. So if you
thought the good sector was somehow the
one creating jobs which we saw in the
ADP number that was called into question
by the ISM manufacturing number. Have
you ever seen such a time of messy
numbers that don't lead to any obvious
conclusions?
It it it ranks up there. You know, it is
quite messy. I would say that um all of
these measures we would use sometimes
you look like a three-month moving
average or trend. You can never you you
can put all of these into your model for
non-farm payrolls, but you know, any
given month you can have some
divergence. And I think, you know,
that's what we're seeing here. Um, and
remember ISM is a diffusion index. So I
wait to see the non-farm payrolls.
That's like the final arbiter for the
month. But as John pointed out, um, and
you've been talking about, there's also
downward division. So we need to watch
those. They tend to be proyclical. So my
sense is, you know, the labor market is
slowing. You're seeing also last month
we saw discouraged workers increase um,
and that's been increasing over the last
few months. So that's also a sign that
yeah there is some weakening in the
labor market and I think the question is
the debris of that. Um and I I look for
the the establishment the payroll data
to be the final you know arbiter. Kathy
remind me what's your number for
tomorrow? What do you expect? We we have
105,000. Um so not too far from
consensus or we're in between the
consensus and whisper number I guess at
this point. We could see the
unemployment rate move a little higher.
Um remember it was held down last time
because people dropped out of labor
force. That's that discouraged worker
effect. That wasn't a great mix. Um so
we could see the unemployment rate move
a little bit higher. Kathy, thank you.
Kathy Botchantic there of nationwide
ahead of payrolls tomorrow. The estimate
in our survey as the economist guesses
come together. Stress guesses, educated
guesses. Am I doing enough to dress that
up? You drew a great job. Keep digging.
110,000 is the estimate in our survey.
The previous number 139. Now, the
following quote, just because I read it
doesn't mean I'm endorsing it. This is
from a Bloomberg subscriber. The
following rates are not rallying on ADP.
Rates don't believe the story. Stocks
are unchanged, but stocks are dumb. Now,
you could probably guess they're in
fixed income, but that's the view of the
market right now. Stocks are dumb. Did
they say you imagine that's going to be
a race trader, right? Well, of course
that's a race trader, but I just No
one's responding to anything. I mean,
there's a little bit of a sell-off in
stocks. You could say stocks are looking
elsewhere. I mean diplomatically. Yes.
When when are you the one to turn to
diplomacy? I love bonds. Say what you
think. I love bonds. There you go. Right
now the difficulty is you typically it's
a balance sheet point with bonds. You
understand the input in you understand
the input out. You understand some sort
of measure of risk. Now you don't you
don't understand because of the deficit
and questions around inflation. So it
becomes the same roarshock test that
that stocks do. So it's getting less
perfect in the math world and it's
frustrating. Bono's getting dragged
higher at the moment at the long end of
the curve. Up by seven basis points. The
epicenter for some of this not actually
down in Washington DC seeing a sell off
in the guilt market as we test the
credibility of the British government.
Yields are much much higher across the
curve in the UK particularly at the long
game with an update on that and a whole
lot more with some of your top stories
in your Bloomberg brief. Here is
Yahihira. Hey yhara. Hi John. We start
with some local news. New York Port
Authority is closed due to a multibus
accident. Because of that, New Jersey
Transit bus service traveling to and
from Port Authority is being rerouted
and bus tickets and passes are being
cross- honored by NJ Transit Rail and
PATH. The New York Fire Department said
14 people are currently being treated
for non-life-threatening injuries.
Meanwhile, Wall Street banks boosting
their dividends after passing this
year's Fed Stress Test. The annual
review showing all examined banks would
maintain enough capital to withstand a
hypothetical economic downturn. The Fed
made the stress test easier to pass by
softening some requirements and plans to
make further changes to reduce
volatility.
And Foxcon has asked hundreds of Chinese
engineers and technicians to return home
from its iPhone factories in India.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg
that the move began two months ago and
more than 300 workers have left. It
marks a setback for Apple's
manufacturing push in India. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John Yhara, thank you.
It must be quiet on Wall Street this
morning. I'm hearing from all of you.
Get back to work. Barry Nav Barry Nav
says this. Remember my quote. Bond
traders are always negative because the
best they can ever get is part. Okay,
that Oh, that is just nasty. First of
all, they get their money back and also
they have math and also start talking
about potentially going out and buying
at a discount, especially if there's a
lot of fear elsewhere or or belief in
euphoria. Barry's an equity guy in case
you didn't guess. All right, up next on
the program setting you up for the day
ahead. Plus, we'll catch up with Tony
Rodriguez of New on the potential impact
of President Trump's tax bill on this
bond market. Live from New York, this is
Bloomberg.
Equities
[Music]
negative by a tenth of 1% on the S&P. On
the NASDAQ, we're down by around about a
third of 1%. Some economic data behind
us and a lot still ahead of us as we
count you down to the open and bal
trading diary is shaping up as follows.
On Thursday, US trade balance and
another round of jobless claims. Plus,
the big one, it's payrolls Thursday.
It's not payrolls Friday ahead of the
market holiday on Friday for the July
4th holiday. It is still a self-imposed
deadline for the president's selfimposed
deadline to pass his tax bill and his
spending bill. And then a sneak peek of
next week, another deadline, not a
self-imposed deadline. The president's
tariff deadline is just around the
corner. As that big beautiful bill, it's
a bit of resistance in the House ahead
of the Friday deadline. We need to get
you an update. Tyler Kendall joins us
now from Washington with more. Tyler,
where are we? How many holdouts are
there? And what is the lesson from the
Senate for some of the individuals in
the House maybe thinking of standing up
and saying, "I don't like this."
Yeah. Hey, John. Well, if we look at the
holdouts that we had seen in the Senate,
perhaps some of the most vocal were
those fiscal hawks like Ron Johnson and
Rick Scott. Ultimately, they ended up
voting for this bill, which could signal
to their House counterparts, those
members in the House Freedom Caucus,
that at the moment there doesn't really
seem to be momentum to make those sort
of changes that would require this bill
to be to be kicked back to the Senate. I
will say that we did hear from at least
one Senator, Lisa Mowski, yesterday who
voted for the bill, but did say that she
would welcome if the House ultimately
put this into conference and made
additional changes. Now, we could get
some sort of indication here actually
within the next 10 minutes on how this
day could develop because at 9:00 a.m.
Eastern, the House is going to convene
and they're going to debate on voting on
what's known as the rule. Now, this is
not the vote on final passage. It's a
procedural motion, but I point it out
because if the rule fails, that could
spell big trouble for Republicans
because essentially it would mean that
some of these House lawmakers are
digging in and trying to get more
compromises. If the rule passes, then
they can proceed to debate and
ultimately later on today that final
vote. That's what we're going to be
looking for because it could really
shape the trajectory of this bill in the
House. Uh John, House Speaker Mike
Johnson, as you well know, can only
afford to lose three votes. And at the
moment, we're seeing reports that
President Trump could be meeting with
some of those hell holdouts, including
members of the House Freedom Caucus.
Tyler Kendall with the latest down in
Washington. Tyler, thank you. Here's the
view on Wall Street at the moment.
Here's a quote from Tony Rodriguez of
New. Congress has moved forward with its
budget bill with the House's proposal,
including more front-loaded easing than
previously expected. This has put upward
pressure on yields. Tony joined us now
for more. Tony, good morning. Good
morning. Like the bond market was
ignoring this for quite a while. Is it
paying attention again? Well, we think
it will. Right now, it's battling
between the risk of some negative data,
right? We saw it with the ADP report,
for example. So, we still think fixed
income is going to be a good hedge if we
get that downturn. So, there's some
buying kind of for that purpose, but
longer term, we think it's the fiscal
deficits which are going to continue to
push the term premium up and you should
see a steep curve. Is that a US story or
a global one? Because also this morning
we're looking at yields in the UK rise
by double digits 15 basis point move on
10 on 30s close to 20. Is this a global
story? Completely we've seen term
premium rise in almost all developed
markets right over the last call it six
to nine months. So we think that's going
to continue. We see Germany we see UK we
see the US all with fiscal expansion. So
the bond market is going to have a lot
of supply to digest and we think that's
going to mean kind of some difficulty.
We don't expect kind of these 20 30
basis point moves to happen necessarily
in the US like we're seeing right now in
the UK, but we do think you could see
some upward pressure unless you start to
see weakness in the economy. The market
hasn't been clear on exactly whether it
would accept rate cuts in the US in
response to weakening data as something
that isn't necessarily a negative for
longer term inflation expectations. It
won't necessarily cause inflation to
surge. Do you push back against that? Do
you think that rate cuts in this type of
environment will just fuel the long end
and lead yields that much higher? I
think right now they would because the
data has been so resilient. So I think
that the cuts really can't happen unless
you get actual hard data that begins to
fall in line with the soft data that
we've seen where there's been quite a
bit of weakness. So I think that the Fed
being patient until they're more
confident you'll see that hard data.
That's what's going to drive them. So
the employment report tomorrow, right?
If we see say a two10 increase, if we
see a sub 100,000 job and certainly a
negative jobs number, that would start
to create the narrative of weak hard
data that would allow the Fed to cut
rates. And those cuts wouldn't
necessarily be viewed as inflationary
because they're in response to the
weaker hard data. I just wonder at what
point do we get weaker hard data and
actually higher long-term yields because
essentially this would increase the
deficit, would it not? and it would
actually challenge any kind of fiscal
response to any kind of downturn. And I
talk about that on a global stage. Isn't
that the case? Yeah, absolutely. We
think a steeper curve is going to be the
story. I think it'll be if we get that
weakness, I think it'll be around Fed
cuts. We think that we're going to get
two cuts either way because right now
there is enough of a slowdown. We're
thinking 1% growth. It's if you see a
recessionary environment where you
really get into trouble around the Fed
having to respond, but there being no
fiscal capacity to do anything. So
that's when you really I think we'll get
a much steeper curve with more
aggressive frontend drops. But we don't
think that means 30 year at 6% 10 year
at 6%. We just think you'll see 10 year
4 and a half 30 year or above five. So
higher than where we are today if you
get that kind of scenario. But right now
our view is that you're not going to get
the recession. So you won't get very
aggressive cuts. You'll get some modest
cuts. That leaves the long end of the
curve kind of right now around maybe
fair value. So four and a quarter is
what we thought for year end. So we're
kind of ahead of the game right now. So
we're not expecting any further drop
from here for the balance of the year.
That is the ultimate fear that bonds
don't do what they're they're meant to
do. And that for me has always been the
difference between what is DM and what
is EM. I've always considered EM
anything whereby you get bad news and
the bonds sell off. In DM, when you get
bad news, the bonds rally. And if we're
talking about if you're worried about
deficits now, wait until a recession. If
we're talking about that hitting bonds
the wrong way, that's a world we're not
used to in developed markets. And that's
a world that the United Kingdom right
now is flirting with. And it raises the
question about whether this is the road
to travel, especially if you have a
budget that is dependent on growth. What
happens if you don't get that to the
deficit and then the response in the
bond market? Too gloomy. Okay, let me
finish on this question. I keep saying
it's not going to be gloomy. I I wish I
could I could actually say who this was
from, but I can't. Okay, here's the
quote. Stock investors ignore data. This
is why they keep piling into stocks with
valuations in the top 10 death while
economic outlook is not great at all.
The bond guy's rule as seen in the UK.
There's another bond guy out there. All
right. There is virtually no stimulus in
the BBB. It is a path to a triple B
rating. That's the line from bond
investors this morning. I got this very
really uh sophisticated response. Stock
traders are morons. Is that a message
you got? Yeah. Okay. So fixed incomes
board this morning, right? And that's
why they're messaging us evidently.
Yeah. Sorry, I don't defended stock
investors. All right, from New York
City, I've got to go. We're up against
the break. This is Bloomberg.